The following is the text of the HacDC Articles of Incorporation.

## Introduction

ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF HACDC

TO: DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS BUSINESS &
PROFESSIONAL LICENSING ADMINISTRATION CORPORATIONS DIVISION

We, the undersigned natural persons of the age of eighteen years or
more, acting as Incorporators of a corporation under the NON-PROFIT
CORPORATION ACT (D.C. Code, 2001 edition, Title 29, Chapter 3), adopt
the following Articles of Incorporation:

## First Article : Name

FIRST: The name of the corporation is HACDC.

## Second Article : Period of Duration

SECOND: The period of its duration is perpetual.

## Third Article : Purposes

THIRD: Said corporation is organized exclusively for charitable,
educational, and scientific purposes within the meaning of Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of
any future federal tax code. The mission of the corporation is to
improve the world by creatively rethinking technology.

Subject to and within the limits of such purposes, the corporation
shall:

1.  Build and maintain spaces suitable for technical and social
    collaboration.
2.  Collaborate on all forms of technology, culture and craft in new and
    interesting ways.
3.  Apply the results of its work to specific cultural, charitable and
    scientific causes.
4.  Freely share its research and discoveries, using what is learned to
    teach others.
5.  Recruit and develop talented members dedicated to these purposes.

The Corporation shall have in furtherance of the aforesaid purposes all
of the powers conferred upon corporations organized pursuant to the
provisions of the District of Columbia Non-Profit Corporation Act.

## Fourth Article : Provision for Members, Classes, Qualification and Election

FOURTH: The corporation shall have members. The membership shall be
divided into a voting class and a non-voting class. Only the voting
class shall have voting privileges. General requirements for all
memberships and specific requirements for each class shall be specified
in the bylaws.

## Fifth Article : Directors, Qualifications and Election

FIFTH: Directors must be voting members elected based on provision
specified in the bylaws.

## Sixth Article : Management, Affairs and Activities and Provision for Dissolution

SIXTH: The management, affairs, activities, and concerns of the
corporation shall be conducted in accordance with its bylaws. The bylaws
may provide, with respect to the directors, for their qualifications;
for their number; for the place, time, method and manner of their
nomination and election or alternates; for their term of office; for
filling of vacancies; for their meetings; and, generally, for their
rights, powers, duties, privileges, and restrictions.

No part of the net earnings of the corporation shall inure to the
benefit of, or be distributable to its members, trustees, officers, or
other private persons, except that the corporation shall be authorized
and empowered to pay reasonable compensation for services rendered and
to make payments and distributions in furtherance of the purposes set
forth in these articles. No substantial part of the activities of the
corporation shall be the carrying on of propaganda, or otherwise
attempting to influence legislation, and the corporation shall not
participate in, or intervene in (including the publishing or
distribution of statements) any political campaign on behalf of or in
opposition to any candidate for public office.

Notwithstanding any other provision of these articles, the corporation
shall not carry on any other activities not permitted to be carried on
(a) by a corporation exempt from federal income tax under section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of
any future federal tax code, or (b) by a corporation, contributions to
which are deductible under section 170(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code.

Upon the dissolution of the corporation, assets shall be distributed for
one or more exempt purposes within the meaning of section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future
federal tax code, or shall be distributed to the federal government, or
to a state or local government, for a public purpose. Any such assets
not so disposed of shall be disposed of by a Court of Competent
Jurisdiction in the District of Columbia, exclusively for such purposes
or to such organization or organizations, as said Court shall determine,
which are organized and operated exclusively for such purposes.

## Seventh Article : Initial Registered Office

SEVENTH: The address of the initial registered office of the corporation
is 2020 F Street N.W. Apartment 109, Washington, D.C. 20006, and the
name of the initial registered agent at such address is Nicholas Farr, a
resident of the District of Columbia.

## Eighth Article : Names and Address of Members of the Initial Board of Directors

EIGHTH: The number of directors constituting the initial board of
directors is six (6), and the names and addresses of the persons who are
to serve as directors until the first annual meeting or until their
successors are elected and shall qualify are:

Ryan Clarke - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Litchfield Park, Arizona 85340

Nicholas Farr - 2020 F Street N.W. Apartment 109, Washington, D.C. 20006

Adam Koeppel - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Washington, D.C. 20009

Eric Michaud - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Downers Grove, Illinois 60515

Andrew Righter - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Grenloch, New Jersey 08032

Allison Treman - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Washington, D.C. 20006

## Ninth Article : Name and Address of Incorporators

NINTH: The name and address of each incorporator are:

Nicholas Farr - 2020 F Street N.W. Apartment 109, Washington, D.C. 20006

Adam Koeppel - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Washington, D.C. 20009

Andrew Righter - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**, New
Jersey 08032

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have signed these Articles and acknowledge the
same to be my act.

__________________________________________
Date:_______________________ Nicholas Farr

__________________________________________
Date:_______________________ Adam Koeppel

__________________________________________
Date:_______________________ Andrew Righter

I, ______________________, A Notary Public, hereby
certify that on the ______ Day of _________, 20__, the
following Incorporators:

Nicholas Farr - 2020 F Street N.W. Apartment 109, Washington, D.C. 20006

Adam Koeppel - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Washington, D.C. 20009

Andrew Righter - **{REDACTED FOR PRIVACY REASONS, CONSULT [PUBLIC
INSPECTION LOCKER](Public_Inspection_Locker "wikilink") AT HACDC}**,
Grenloch, New Jersey 08032

appeared before me and signed the foregoing document as incorporators,
and have averred that the statements therein contained are true.

[Category:HacDC_Docs](Category:HacDC_Docs "wikilink")