## Purpose

From the HacDC Bylaws, Article III, Section 2:


*At the annual meeting, the voting members shall elect the Board of
Directors, review and vote on the standing rules and policies of the
corporation, receive reports on the activities of the corporation,
approve the budget and determine the direction of corporation in the
coming year.*

## Time and Location

`   Date: Tuesday, March 8`
`   Location: HacDC`

Meeting called to order at

`   Time: 7:43pm`
`   By: Tayeb`

## Participants

- Members Present:
  - Kevin
  - Ken
  - Tayeb
  - John
  - Michelle
  - Gabe
  - Matt
  - Obi
  - Mario
  - Brian
  - Don

<!-- -->

- Others Present:

[Quorum](Quorum "wikilink") met?

`   Yes`

## Approval of Previous Meeting's Minutes

Approved

## Recognition

Michelle - initiative taking, leadership All Members - getting out of
the red

## Director Reports

### President's Report

Tayeb: initial goal to reopen to the public, however we have regular
online meetings (Online Project Night, Microfabrication, FreeCAD). In
the future, would like regular meetings of some sort and continue and
move to "hybrid." Next steps: verify (and fix) tools/equipment and
prepare space for use.

### Vice President's Report

### Treasurer's Report

Financial Report: Current Balance -- \$11,572.80 We currently have 18
paying members, \$870 from dues and an additional \$148.16 from
donations. Rent is \$900 for February, total expenses are \$957.57

### Secretary's Report

1.  HacDC WorkRoom Safety & Security:
    1.  Waiver. [Hold harmless
        agreement](https://www.google.com/search?q=hold+harmless+agreement+makerspace)
        for existing and new members.
    2.  Safety Instruction. Training class for existing and new members.
        Short-term: documentation and videos on website. Long-term: an
        online Learning Management System (LMS) like [Video Lessons
        Plugin](https://www.videolessonsplugin.com/) or [other LMS
        plugins on WordPress](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/lms/)
    3.  Room monitoring systems. Possible solutions: room occupancy,
        room safety monitoring, timed entrance, air quality monitoring
        (ie. return Ken's Air Quality monitors)
2.  City of DC Safety & Security:
    1.  Christine: HacDC ham radio club is active in emergency
        communications, assisted on the Women's March and is organizing
        an emergency response group. There is also CERT training given
        by the city

### Director-at-Large Reports

#### Ken

#### Kevin

## [Project Awesome](:Category:Project_Awesome "wikilink") Reports

### Project HAMRADIO

### Project SEM

### Project SUPPLIES

1.  Need to build an (high-level) inventory list that is public-facing.
    Should include dates.

### Project EXPANSION

## Audit Committee Report

## Member Reports

## Old Business

1.  Wiki-Website Re-Design - the Unified Data Team launched new Wiki and
    new Website for purpose of unifying two platforms, minimizing
    duplicate information, focusing sites for particular audiences. In
    regards to the WordPress Admin, do all 31 users still need access?
    No, they do not.
2.  [ECE Conference on March
    25](https://www.ecedha.org/Meetings/2022-ECEDHA-Annual-Conference) -
    annual conference hosted by Electrical and Computer Engineering
    Department Head Association (ECEDHA) this year in New Orleans LA
    invited Tayeb and Michelle to speak on hackerspace-related panels
    (yay! we found panelists). Goals: promote HacDC, find well-resourced
    partners, represent HacDC well. New programming:
    1.  Tayeb's pre-panel discussion Monday veered towards ways to open
        up hackerspaces to the public.
    2.  Katie B - former member may have worth of information
3.  [FurnishHopeDC](https://furnishhopedc.org) - Bobby says, "this seems
    like it might be a good group for HacDC to get involved with
    (providing & fixing computers and possibly building furniture out of
    scrap wood"

### Bylaws Amendments

- No bylaws amendments (\<-- carry over to next Old Business...several
  board members like this)

## New Business

1.  **Workspace Opening Up** - status update. Church common areas still
    requires masks. Inside workroom: members welcome to not wear masks
    as long as others give consensus - default to most conservative
    attendee.
    1.  Two Saturdays Ago - Matt, Kevin, Tayeb went to get 3D printers
        running again. Need 2-3 more "hackdays" before Octaprint server
        runs with 3 functional printers.
        1.  Monoprice printer (Ultamaker style) is working now (yay!).
        2.  Second printer needs OEM part costs \$400 (value for \$3500
            printer).
        3.  Ninjaflex printer works
            1.  Kevin: the rubber does get stuck, so there is a process
                for cleaning out the tube which needs to happen between
                runs in order for it to work again
    2.  New likely tools:
        1.  ~\$2000-\$2400 for laser cutter - already scoped by Ethan
            and Tayeb
            1.  Matt: if do this may need to (1) account for safety
                and (2) increase our insurance liability
            2.  Michelle: would like to see a committee formed for
                interested parties to devote long-term success for this
                project
        2.  Existing laser cutter - John curious if we need this =\>
            Tayeb feels it should hang around because members like to
            tinker on it but maybe time to relegate to basement to get
            more space.
        3.  Build-a-Laser-Cutter idea - Mario could produce a DIY one
        4.  "tool certification" - Kevin says FabLab has this for their
            laser cutter use; specifies what kinds of materials you
            can/cannot burn; John points out will take some effort to
            run properly
2.  **Resources for Instructors** - on website, could include: list of
    tools available to instructors and process for requesting access
    (Zoom, Google Groups). How are Tristan/Ethan doing with Jitsi?
    TechSoup Zoom is not free, sadly, so not viable unless demand is
    there. See "OBS Studio" which a member could download and record
    then post. See "Big Blue Button" (see Kevin) - cons: single-screen
    sharing compared to Jitsi's multi-screen sharing. (note: Jitsi does
    recording but does so poorly.)
3.  **UpCycled** - Mario in touch with Orlando on potential
    collaboration related to recycling; see [past
    fundraiser](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/waste-to-wonder-happy-hour-tickets-223441719197?aff=ebdsoporgprofile#).
4.  **[Farm
    Hack](https://marylandorganic.org/2016/02/05/open-source-agricultural-tools-with-farm-hack/)** -
    Michelle interest in non-profit of farmers who hack things together
    to promote sustainable agriculture, maybe invite leadership to talk
    for 5 minutes
5.  **Raspberry Pi Rep** - Kevin says that on occasion a rep from
    Raspberry Pi will drop in on HacDC
6.  **Rockville Sci-Tech Fair on Apr 24th** - Tayeb has requested two
    tables at the event; need to verify we will have power & wifi access
    (event is outdoor)
7.  **Bike Lights** - Tayeb wants to host event to add Persistent
    Vision, artistic art, to bikes and promote bike safety
8.  **Basement Cleanup** - John would like us to consider making space
    use again Spring Cleaning
    1.  New Committee: John, Brian, Michelle - first step is go down
        there and assess what to keep/throw out & assess water damage;
        would be nice to get networking going again (see Network Closet
        behind security person's desk); there is also a CNC computer
        which should still work with the CNC mill

## Board of Directors Elections

Slate of Candidates -- Michelle Savage: President, Obioma Anomnachi:
Vice-President, Tayeb Zaidi: Secretary, Matt Stafford: Treasurer, John
Pancoast: At-Large, Gabriel Altay: At-Large Results of the elections are
as follows:

`   President: ''Michelle Savage ran unopposed`

`   Vice President:  ''Obioma Anomnachi ran unopposed`

`   Treasurer: ''Matt Stafford ran unopposed`

`   Secretary: ''Tayeb Zaidi ran unopposed`

`   At large seats: ''Gabriel Altay and John Pancoast ran unopposed`

## New Members

## Adjournment

Adjourned at

`   Time: 9:17pm`

[Category:Meeting Minutes](Category:Meeting_Minutes "wikilink")