## Purpose

From the HacDC Bylaws, Article III, Section 2:


*At the annual meeting, the voting members shall elect the Board of
Directors, review and vote on the standing rules and policies of the
corporation, receive reports on the activities of the corporation,
approve the budget and determine the direction of corporation in the
coming year.*

## Time and Location

January 28th, 2017 at 4pm

Meeting called to order at

`   1630`

Members Present:

`   Ben Enrique Julia Ankeet Andrew Matt Ken Tom Kevin`

Others Present:

`   Others`

[Quorum](Quorum "wikilink") met?

`   yes`

## Approval of Previous Meeting's Minutes

## Recognition

In 2016 HacDC held nearly 100 free workshops on microcontroller
programming, 3D design and 3D printing. We also started workshops
teaching people about PC hardware and software with several PC Rebuilds
events, a couple of Linux Install nights and about a dozen Introduction
to Linux workshops. The Amateur Radio Club also held dozens of meetings
including many guest speakers, and participated in national and
international contests including field excursions to the White House,
National Parks, Lincoln's Cottage and more. HacDC itself had three long
days of off-site demos at the USA Science and Engineering Festival and
RobotFest. HARC also participated in the Silver Spring Maker Faire,
enabled remote online access to the W3HAC station and set up a repeater.
We also had a few one-off events like the Apple v FBI discussion, a
Kerbal Space Program gathering, a couple of Hackathons run by
hackster.io, and we fixed the LCD TV! Last but not least, we assembled,
launched, tracked and recovered Spaceblimp 6 and got some beautiful
images and video from the stratosphere (104,000ft!).

Through our partnership with High School Tech Services HacDC has hosted
classes on project management, programming fundamentals, object oriented
programming, HTML5 and more.

Besides the workshops, events and projects, we also continued to
reorganize ourselves in our new space after our late 2015 move, we
renewed a \$500 sponsorship from Accelebrate and obtained a new
sponsorship from Newark element 14, we got over \$550 in donations from
federal employees via the CFC process. We restored our reserves to 6
months of expenses, we cleaned up the Standing Rules and some other
parts of the Wiki. Several of our members attended the Nation of Makers
meeting and continue to be involved in the new national organization.

HARC: 132 exams were given in 2016. 116 new licenses or upgrades. We
participated in 16 radio contests and 22 National Park on the Air
events, including the National Monument and Presidents Park(White
House). We purchased and installed a 440mhz repeater.

## Director Reports

### President's Report

`   nice LED lights`

### Vice President's Report

`   not present`

### Treasurer's Report

- See the January meeting minutes for numbers. We have about 7-8 months
  of full operating expenses in reserve but we're close to breaking even
  month-to-month, especially with the coming 5% rent increase.
- We are too reliant on membership dues (95%+ of our revenue) and the
  dues are pretty high already. We should look at getting more donations
  or applying for grants.
- To raise more than \$1,500/yr in donations, we need a solicitation
  permit, which we should and will apply for shortly.
- Apparently HacDC has never filed tax returns with DC Govt since it was
  founded. Once we start (this year), even though we've been tax-exempt,
  we may get fined for not filing returns as expected. We should clear
  that up before looking at grants.

### Secretary's Report

`   I was Secretary and a member of the BOD this past year.`

### Director-at-Large Reports

#### Matt

Has been a good year. No drama. More volunteers getting involved. Maybe
next year we can grow and do really awesome things.

#### Mike

## [Project Awesome](:Category:Project_Awesome "wikilink") Reports

### Project HAMRADIO

### Project SEM

### Project SUPPLIES

### Project EXPANSION

## Audit Committee Report

Nobody bothered to form a committee so there's no report. All financial
statements including receipts for all purchases are at the space, in the
BOD locker, treasurer's folder. The Dwolla statements include member
names, the rest don't. -Enrique

## Member Reports

## Old Business

`   The bylaws amendment has enough signatures to consider.`
`   The bylaws amendment below passed by unanimous acclamation.`

### Bylaws Amendments

- Proposed Amendment to Bylaws Article II, Section 6: Add "*For
  substantial cause, the Board of Directors may indefinitely suspend a
  member's access to the space by a 2/3 majority vote of the board. By
  voting at an official meeting with quorum, members may reinstate or
  suspend, access or membership, for any member whose access has been
  suspended by the board. The board may suspend the access of no more
  than two members per month via this procedure. Access to the space may
  not be re-suspended by the Board of Directors for the same actions or
  incidents. Explanation of such suspensions must be submitted
  electronically to all members."* (This proposed bylaws amendment must
  be signed by 3/4ths of all members before it is adopted)

## New Business

- Group Photo. The group photo we have is ANCIENT. Literally 90% of
  those people are gone. New photo is years overdue.

## Board of Directors Elections

Results of the elections are as follows:

`   President: ''Julia stood for election unopposed.`

`   Vice President:  ''Andrew and Tom stand for VP.`
`   ''Tom won with 7 votes to 3`

`    Treasurer: ''Enrique stood for election unopposed.`

`    Secretary: ''Ben stood for election unopposed.`

`   At large seats: ''Andrew, Mirage, and Kevin stand for at large seats.`
`   Mirage and Kevin won the ranked choice vote.`

## New Members

## Adjournment

Adjourned at

`   1700`

[Category:Meeting Minutes](Category:Meeting_Minutes "wikilink")