## Purpose

From the HacDC Bylaws, Article III, Section 2:


At the annual meeting, the voting members shall elect the Board of
Directors, review and vote on the standing rules and policies of the
corporation, receive reports on the activities of the corporation,
approve the budget and determine the direction of corporation in the
coming year.

This meeting will also serve as the monthly meeting for the month of
March.

## Time and Location

March 11, 2014

Meeting called to order at 1955 by Ben.

Members Present: Ben, Katie, DavidMc.. 12 in person, 3 online.

Others Present: ~5

[Quorum](Quorum "wikilink") met? Yes.

## Approval of Previous Meeting's Minutes

[Regular Member Meeting 2014 02
11](Regular_Member_Meeting_2014_02_11 "wikilink") - approved.

## Recognition

- Thanks to Evan and Zack for their work on the laser cutter.
- Everyone involved in Project SEM .
- David McInnis for adding really cool lighting to the new shelves in
  the basement.
- Julia Longtin (aka. juri) for more 3D printer tweaking and getting
  ahead on cleaning up the space.

## Director Reports

### President's Report

As reported last month, the BoD has approved accepting the donation of a
Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM). The SEM is now ready to be picked up
and we have about three weeks to collect it. It is currently in Norfolk,
VA and is a large, heavy piece of equipment. We will need to rent/borrow
a truck (ideally one with a lift-gate) to transport it up to HacDC, and
we'll need several strong volunteers to help us load, and unload the
truck (including bringing it up the stairs and into the workshop).
Additionally, we will need some help making space for it in the
workshop. **We are currently shooting for Saturday, March 29th.**

### Vice President's Report

admin team is accepting donations of gigabit network switches. we need
both managed and unmanaged switches. one managed switch with 20+ ports
which is for the church network. we are getting the space wired for
gigabit ethernet so cat5e and cat6 keystone jacks and and wall plates
are welcome.

### Treasurer's Report

Here is the financial summary spreadsheet for February 2014:
![<File:HacDC_Financials_2014_02.pdf>](HacDC_Financials_2014_02.pdf "File:HacDC_Financials_2014_02.pdf").
We gained two members in the last month: Elizabeth Smith and Ariam
Mogos. We lost two members in the last month: Tim Dixon and Nick Mapsy.
We have 46 dues-paying members in good standing, two permanently
dues-waived members, four temporarily dues-waived members, and five
members who are behind on dues.

#### Project Awesome

Here is the Project Awesome spreadsheet for February:
![<File:HacDC_PA_Projects-2014_02.pdf>](HacDC_PA_Projects-2014_02.pdf "File:HacDC_PA_Projects-2014_02.pdf").
Once again we are in the red for the month, so there is no Project
Awesome dividend. :(

### Secretary's Report

NonHacDC calendar is being populated. Need to put it in a more public
place and open it up to members for editing. Otherwise nothing
significant to report.

### Director-at-Large Reports

No report.

## [Project Awesome](:Category:Project_Awesome "wikilink") Reports

### Project LASER

Dan: Optical maintenance; cleaning lenses, tightening things, etc. Found
the aluminum track is wearing and has some play. Will try to flip them
to use the other side, otherwise will purchase new tracks. This is
expected, normal wear. Aiming laser and combining optic is here, but
dust is still a problem. Will add air flushing to all optical
components. Thanks to those who worked on the alignment. The idea of
having jigs underneath is being put off. The cabinet will need to be
reworked first.

### Project BYZANTIUM

Nothing new to report.

### Project KITBUILD

Nothing new to report.

### Project SUPPLIES

Still healthy and stable. A few expenses this month, related to lighting
the new shelves.

### Project EXPANSION

We may be able to afford a small vertical bandsaw for about \$100,
similar to the one we had before. This would help cutting stock
materials for CNC mill, laser cutter, photolithography fab, etc. Any
suggestions or objections? Dan: reminds Mirage that we'd like ink for
the inkjet plotter in the basement.

### Project SPACECAM

Kevin: comments on Rob's donation list, very interested in the
projectors and the scanning/projecting white boards. WebRTC is what will
hopefully replace Hangouts in the future. Please check it out.

## Member Reports

### Justin Myers

Quick reminder that our first
[Laurel](http://larcmd.org/vec/)-accredited ham radio licensing [exam
session](Licensing_Exams "wikilink") starts at noon [March
22](http://www.meetup.com/hac-dc/events/160901402/) (a week from this
coming Saturday). Review/questions are welcome at tomorrow's (March 12)
HARC meeting.

If you're interested in getting licensed, take your exams here for free!
Other exam dates this year: [June
21](http://www.meetup.com/hac-dc/events/160901522/) and [Nov.
8](http://www.meetup.com/hac-dc/events/160901572/).

We also need more examiners who can help out at these sessions; if
you're already licensed (General or above) and want to help, let me
know.

### Mirage

Audio difficulties.

From chat: Basically, I have a nice HF antenna, and continuing work with
Imagnus. The USRP is cooperating now. Would like Dan and I to have
permission to expediently dispose of remaining junk in the basement.
Three months is far too long!

### Dan

New acrylic colors in stock. Non-rastering cutting is working fine
(laser cutter). Discussion: computer for laser cutter could use more
memory, but it's windoz XP. Options presented, will look into it.

## Old Business

Provide Martin a keyholding honorary (nonpaying) membership. - Approved
by member vote.

## New Business

Approve Article IV of the [Proposed Standing
Rules](Proposed_Standing_Rules#Article_IV:_Meetings "wikilink"). This
codifies our existing policies and empowers the BoD to reschedule member
meetings for the following week in the event that an emergency (such as
weather) forces the cancellation of a scheduled meeting. - proposed
rules reviewed in meeting, minor discussion followed - Approved by
member vote.

Permit Dan Barlow and mirage335 to expediently dispose of junk in the
basement for the next few months. - Approved by member vote.

## Board of Directors Elections

Results of the elections are as follows:

### President

Dan

### Vice-President

Chris

### Treasurer

Katie

### Secretary

DaveMc

### At-Large Directors (two)

Zach and Ben

## New Members

Chris - electronics, Ham, Windows expert - Approved by member vote.

## Adjournment

Adjourned at 2110.

[Category:Meeting Minutes](Category:Meeting_Minutes "wikilink")