According to the [Bylaws](Bylaws "wikilink"):


An annual meeting of all members shall take place sometime in January,
February or March. The [Coordinator in
Chief](Coordinator_in_Chief "wikilink") shall select the date, time and
place no later than January 31 of each year. The date, time and place of
the annual meeting must be posted in the registered office and submitted
to members electronically at least two weeks prior to the annual
meeting. A petition signed by more than three quarters (3/4ths) of
voting members and submitted to the Board of Directors before
Valentine's Day may specify a new date, time and place for the annual
meeting. At the annual meeting, the voting members shall elect the Board
of Directors, review and vote on the standing rules and policies of the
corporation, receive reports on the activities of the corporation,
approve the budget and determine the direction of corporation in the
coming year.

The 2009 Annual meeting took place on **Saturday, February 21, 2009,
starting at 5:00 pm**. Here are the [2009 Annual Meeting
Minutes](2009_Annual_Meeting_Minutes "wikilink").

Potential items to consider:

- Dues - at least one member has suggested we review the dues level and
  consider lowering dues
- [Quorum](Quorum "wikilink") - at least one member has suggested the
  [bylaws](bylaws "wikilink") be amended to prevent the voting-in of new
  members at a meeting from increasing the [quorum](quorum "wikilink")
  threshold *at that meeting*, possibly thereby breaking
  [quorum](quorum "wikilink") and ending the meeting prematurely
- Approval of New Members - Under the current system, prospective
  members can pay membership dues for weeks or months before being
  officially approved and thus able to enjoy the privileges of
  membership. Is this something we'd like to change?

<b>`Section 3: Voting Membership Class Election`</b>` `
~~`Any member may nominate a qualified person to be a voting member.`~~` `
`Any eligible person may be elected as a voting member at any regular meeting upon payment of their first periodic dues and visual approval of all members present.`

- It is proposed to reduce the frequency of business meetings to once
  per month, both to reduce the amount of formal business upkeep, and to
  free up Tuesday nights for more involving events.
- It is proposed to change the meeting format to Robert's Rules of Order
  from the current "MIBS" system.

`  `<b>`Section 7: Conduct of Meetings`</b>` `
` All meetings shall follow Roberts Rules of Order. `~~`the MIBS Simplified Rules of Coordinated Consensus through Chaos as approved at an annual meeting.`~~` `

- It is proposed to change the description of Keeper of the MIBS to
  include a role as parliamentarian at the meetings, to assist the
  Minister of Information in cases of parliamentary procedure under
  whichever meeting format HacDC members choose to adopt.
- It is proposed to add a Quartermaster role to the Board of Directors,
  whose role would be to oversee space arrangement, utilization,
  sanitation, and resource management. The Quartermaster would also
  maintain the HacDC eBay account and would be running auctions of
  surplus HacDC items on a regular basis.
- It is proposed that no new expenditures shall be authorized in the
  absence of a current, accurate financial statement certified by the
  Minister of Finance
- It is proposed that we create a new position of PR Coordinator who
  will be in charge of advertisement and popularize our events.
- It is proposed that we add a requirement for ministers to be present
  at a certain number or percentage of business meetings

## Elections

A portion of the Annual Meeting is devoted to the election of new Board
of Directors, as set forth in the bylaws. The following people have
expressed an interest in running for a position:

### Coordinator in Chief / President

- Elliot Williams

### Minister of Information / Vice President

### Keeper of the MIBS / Secretary

- [Ben](User:Ben "wikilink")

### Minister of Finance / Treasurer

- Tim C.

### Two At-large Board Members

(Apparently, we need these.
[1](http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws#Section_1:_Role.2C_Size.2C_Term_and_Compensation)
Any volunteers?)

[Category:Meeting Minutes](Category:Meeting_Minutes "wikilink")