**Note:** This page serves as the 2010 Annual Meeting's agenda (before
the meeting) and minutes (after the meeting).

# Purpose

From the HacDC Bylaws, Article III, Section 2:


At the annual meeting, the voting members shall elect the Board of
Directors, review and vote on the standing rules and policies of the
corporation, receive reports on the activities of the corporation,
approve the budget and determine the direction of corporation in the
coming year.

# Time and Location

7:30 p.m., Tuesday, 13 April 2010

Meeting called to order at 7:40:12 by el Presidente outgoing

Members Present: Jason D, Brad B, Todd F, Elliot W, Tim C, Ash, Alberto
G, Daniel B, Martin R, Ben S, Tim B, Daniel P, Brian Redbear, Katie B,
Nikolas C, Dan T, William G,

Others: Allen M, Nick F, Tom C

[Quorum](Quorum "wikilink") established? Yes

# Officer Reports

## President's Report

Been a really good year and a bit for HacDC. We've grown a lot. We've
outgrown our space, we've got a bunch of great people doing great
things. We've helped the church out along the way. The basement is
turning into a workable workshop.

## Vice President's Report

Nothing to report.

## Treasurer's Report

See attached. The financial status of HacDC is strong.

## Secretary's Report

# Member Reports

## Daniel Packer

There's a possibility of using warehouse space (near 1400 N Capitol)
that's being used by MIT's FabLab. There's also possibilities of working
with that group.

Digital capital week: HacDC has been invited to participate. There is
funding available for kit builds, etc. Soft deadline, but proposals are
currently being accepted.

## Nikolas C

Doing more kit builds. AVR Programming class has started and should be
more regular now.

## Brad

Natural Language and AI group is fun.

## Tim Ball

Airplane hanger space is still an option.

## Ash

Would like to repeat the electronics class. Needs several alternate
teachers

## Daniel P

Is helping to organize a HacDC table for Robot Fest.

## Todd F

501c3 App is ready to go now that we have the financial reports
finished. The only other thing we need to do is to write a conflict of
interest policy.

Ben moved to second the boilerplate conflict of interest policy Todd F
posted to the members list. It passed unanimously

## Alberto G

Hackers in Space project is gaining momentum.

## Daniel B

Showing off goodies from Riley's shop.

## Jay K

Requesting approval to get a new callsign for HacDC.

## William G

FPGA class is going well.

# New Business

## Board of Directors Elections

### President

##### Nominations

Daniel P nominated himself, Alberto seconded

There were no other nominations.

### Vice-President

Tim Ball nominated himself, Jay nominated himself, Daniel P nominated
Todd F, Todd Declined someone nominated Nikolas C

Jay declined to give a statement.

Tim B promised to bring in beer if nominated

Nikolas says "blinkie lights are good"

Tim B won the vote.

### Treasurer

Todd F was nominated

There were no further nominations

### Secretary

Tim B nominated Ben S. Daniel P nominated Nikolas C Ben S withdrew his
nomination

There were no further nominations

### At-Large Directors

Will was nominated Jay was nominated Tim C nominated Osman Tim B
nominated Redbeard

Katie was the winner. Second place was a tie between William and Brian.
A coin flip decided the vote in William's favor.

### Induction of New Members

- Alan McCosh
- Tom Cohlmia
- Nick Farr

# Finances

# Adjournment

Meeting adjourned at 9pm'ish

[Category:Meeting Minutes](Category:Meeting_Minutes "wikilink")