## Project Description

- Organizers: Enrique C., Nancy C. Wolfson, Bobby B.
- Contact: crispr@hacdc.org

CRISPR-Cas9 is a groundbreaking new (2012 vintage) gene editing
technique. While gene editing is not a new concept, previous methods
were far more expensive, slow and restricted in capabilities than
CRISPR. Further, whereas previous methods only successfully edited a few
percent of the exposed cells, CRISPR's efficiency approaches 100%. This
is particularly important for gene editing in living multi-cellular
organisms. The new technique is dramatically accelerating the pace of
genetic engineering since its invention in 2012.

CRISPR is an acronym that describes a genetic curiosity observed several
decades ago: Clusters of Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic
Repeats. A few years go it was recognized that these odd DNA sequences
in bacteria are deactivated virus DNA and make up a kind of Virus
Definition Database. Finally, it was discovered that a protein exists
which goes around scanning bacteria DNA searching for matches to virus
DNA sequences and, when a match is found, cuts the gene in the bacteria
DNA very precisely and efficiently. This protein was termed Cas9. In
effect, bacteria and other organisms already have an excellent built-in
gene-editing mechanism, and scientists have since learned to hijack that
mechanism using engineered RNA sequences that direct the Cas9 protein to
cut DNA in any desired location in the genome.

The Cas9 mechanism only cuts the DNA in one location, leaving DNA repair
mechanisms to fix the double-strand cut. Repair mechanisms for such a
serious double-strand break are so imperfect as to incapacitate the gene
with errors most of the time. Thus the Cas9 protein deactivates genes
rather than removing them. However, by programming two custom RNA target
strands, two Cas9 proteins can be used in tandem to excise part of a
genome altogether. To add a new gene, there must be enough of that gene
floating around during the CRISPR process that it becomes incorporated
into the genome via the repair mechanisms.

These are the best videos we've found so far: Genome Editing with
CRISPR-Cas9 by McGovern Institute for Brain Research
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2pp17E4E-O8>

What is CRISPR? by Bozeman Science
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnYppmstxIs>

Read more here: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRISPR>

Read more here: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRISPR>

In the ODIN kit experiment, bacteria (E. coli HME63 strain) are modified
to add resistance to the antibiotic streptomycin. The kit provides the
vulnerable bacteria, the resistance gene, and growth media with and
without antibiotic. The original unmodified bacteria can only grow on
the plain agar media whereas bacteria with a successfully edited genome
will also grow on the streptomycin-laced agar. This is similar to Wenyan
Jiang, David Bikard, David Cox, Feng Zhang and Luciano Marraffini,
RNA-guided editing of bacterial genomes using CRISPR-Cas systems, Nature
Biotechnology 31(3), pp.233 (2013).
<http://zlab.mit.edu/assets/reprints/Jiang_W_Nat_Biotechnol_2013.pdf>

## Financial Support / Sponsors

HacDC - 8/2016 - purchased Bacterial DIY CRISPR kit. Enrique C -
11/2016- purchased Bacterial DIY CRISPR Kit. Nancy W - purchased
Bacterial DIY CRISPR kit. Enrique C - 5/2017 - purchased Bacterial DIY
CRISPR Kit Refill. Nancy W - 2017 - purchased Bacterial DIY CRISPR kit
refill. Nancy W - 2017 - purchased temperature-controlled water bath.
Nancy W - 2017 - loaned 1600X Optical Microscope with USB camera.
Enrique C - 2017 - purchased supplies and gram staining kit. The ODIN -
01/2018- provided free sample of next-gen CRISPR kit.

## Activities and Goals

DC CRISPR Initiative is our effort to learn about, perform, and teach
CRISPR genetic editing at HacDC. To begin the project, we???ve ordered a
Do-It-Yourself CRISPR Kit, which includes (supposedly) all the tools and
ingredients needed to perform a CRISPR procedure a few times. We???ll
hold a few events at HacDC to go through the procedure and document our
experience. Eventually we???ll create a guide that older high school
kids can follow. This project also explores interest in molecular
biology and genetics at HacDC. We're just starting! Keep an eye out for
CRISPR events in our MeetUp page, on the mailing list, and our Blabber
discussion forum.

## Project Team Members

Enrique C. - Project Manager and Point of Contact Nancy W. - Project
Development Lead Bobby B. - Molecular Biology Advisor Sophia M. -
Scientific Advisor

## Worklog

July 30, 2016 We received the CRISPR kit purchased with Project
EXPANSION funds (thanks!).

August 2, 2016 Nancy and Enrique inventoried the ODIN kit and designated
the small classroom fridge as the "NO FOOD" Project CRISPR fridge.

August 5, 2016 Nancy and Enrique prepared four Petri dishes (two plain
agar, two streptomycin-agar). The agar and
antibiotic(streptomycin)-laced agar are gel-like substances similar to
gelatin. They come as powders which must be mixed with water and heated
to dissolve. The recipe is proportioned for seven Petri dishes but we
scaled down to one of each, scaling the agar powders and water by
one-seventh. Even so we were able to coat two dishes with each growth
medium. We didn't have distilled or deionized water and used bottled
purified drinking water in a pinch. The mixture (agar gel only, no
bacteria!) was heated in the microwave 7 seconds at a time. It took 4-5
cycles until the powders were fully dissolved and the liquid
transparent, then another 5 minutes until they were cool enough to
handle and pour into the plastic Petri dishes. The dishes cooled at room
temperature for an hour to remove some condensation (the covered hot
liquid creates condensation on the lid), then placed in the fridge. Two
are agar (no antibiotic) and two are streptomycin/Kan agar (antibiotic
laced).

August 10, 2016 Ken, Bobby, Nancy, and Enrique. We streaked some of the
original E. coli HME63 bacteria onto two plain agar plates. Plate 1 was
left out tonight (the bacteria need to grow). Plate 2 was immediately
refrigerated and will be taken out to grow just before the actual
experiment.

August, 2016 Nancy, Ken and Enrique. We performed the CRISPR experiment,
but realized we don't have a constant-temperature water bath. We used an
IR thermometer and the microwave to prepare and maintain a water bath of
approximately 42C. The incubation period post-CRISPR is also quite long,
up to 4 hours at room temperature, which makes this experiment
problematic as an after-work evening activity. It'd work better on a
weekend day or holiday since we have day jobs.

September, 2016 Nancy, Enrique. The first CRISPR-modified bacteria on
the Strep-Kan plate was left at room temperature over the weekend (48
hours). However, no bacteria colonies could be easily seen in the plate.
The plate was left at room temperature several more days with no change.
It looks like our first attempt did not wildly succeed.

September, 2016 Enrique. I prepared a new set of Agar (3) and Strep-Kan
Agar (3) plates for troubleshooting experiments and a second try at
CRISPR. We should test the full CRISPR protocol again, both on Agar and
Strep-Kan plates, but also test the survival of bacteria at several
other steps: Transformation Mix only and Transformation Mix + tracrRNA +
crRNA.

September, 2016 Enrique and Nancy. We developed a troubleshooting
protocol under the suspicion that maybe none of the bacteria are
surviving (we did not make a plain Agar control plate last time). We
also tested the 'sterile' innoculation loops vs. a bag of zip-ties we
found laying around. Nancy brought an alcohol thermometer that's
probably more accurate in water than the IR thermometer. The resulting
plates were incubated for 24-48 hours. It was difficult to re-suspend
the bacteria in solution after harvesting from the first plate. A vortex
generator (basically a strong vibrator) would be helpful.

September, 2016 Enrique and Nancy. Hm... there are some specs on the
CRISPR plate this time, just 2-3 colonies though. All the other (Agar)
plates had tons of bacteria, so clearly the low efficiency is at the
CRISPR step with the Template DNA. Also we brought in more Bleach for
disposal of old samples, and bleach wipes.

September, 2016 Enrique. I located a much better (real) biological
microscope with up to 1000x magnification in the basement. Man our
inventory sucks; I had no idea we had this thing. Images are much
better, although I'm not certain we're looking at individual bacteria. I
also purchased a hotplate so we can actually control temperature baths
in the future.

January, 2017 See notebook.

February, 2017. The third trial of the CRISPR process gave us a positive
control sample, which makes the result inconclusive. While the Agar
media grew more, both the CRISPR and original LD 21 bacteria grew
somewhat on the Strep-Kan media. We perfomed a second control
experiment, plating 100uL of the LD21 bacteria and the
Transformation-Mix HME 63 strain with 400uL of DI water each, onto
Strep-Kan media.

June, 2017 Purchased Bacterial CRISPR refill kit using HacDC Project
CRISPR funds.

July 2017 - Bobby, Nancy, Enrique, Sophia and Richard. Met to plan
workshop. Bobby gave us his Introduction to Molecular Biology talk - it
was about 90 minutes but could probably be shortened to 60 if needed.
Prepared fresh Agar and Strep-Kan plates. Sophia showed us a new
(correct) streaking technique. We plated some bacteria but they overgrew
(storage place on top of the fridge is too warm in the summer), making
it impossible to isolated a colony. Sophia took a second batch home and
it was better with some isolated colonies.

August 23, 2017 - Sophia, Nancy and Enrique. Trial 4 of the full CRISPR
process. Enrique took the resulting plates home to monitor growth at
room temperature. No growth observed on the CRISPR sample. Control
sample grew quickly.

December 11, 2017 - Nancy and Enrique. Contacted kit supplier to obtain
fresh ingredients.

January 09, 2017 - Enrique. Prepared fresh Agar and Strep-Kan Agar
plates. Checked for contamination growth 48 hours (none).

January 12, 2017 - Nancy, Enrique and guests Tobi and Tom. Trial 4.5 of
the CRISPR process. Used bacteria straight from the supply rather than a
colony (not available). The result after 48 hours was much growth on the
Agar plate and zero growth on the Strep-Kan plate. (no modification)

## Sample Inventory

**CRISPR Trial 8/24/2017** LB-Agar Plate at 1 and 20 Hours:
![<File:IMG_20170825_001628s.jpg>](IMG_20170825_001628s.jpg "File:IMG_20170825_001628s.jpg")
![<File:IMG_20170825_190805s.jpg>](IMG_20170825_190805s.jpg "File:IMG_20170825_190805s.jpg")

StrepKan Plate at 1, 20, 28 and 57 Hours:
![<File:IMG_20170825_001648s.jpg>](IMG_20170825_001648s.jpg "File:IMG_20170825_001648s.jpg")
![<File:IMG_20170825_190912s.jpg>](IMG_20170825_190912s.jpg "File:IMG_20170825_190912s.jpg")
![<File:IMG_20170826_032748s.jpg>](IMG_20170826_032748s.jpg "File:IMG_20170826_032748s.jpg")
![<File:IMG_20170827_093620s.jpg>](IMG_20170827_093620s.jpg "File:IMG_20170827_093620s.jpg")

**CRISPR Trial 1/12/2018**Clean Agar plate after 48 hours incubation. No
contamination growth observed.
[Media:CRISPR-180112-Agar_blank_48h.jpeg](Media:CRISPR-180112-Agar_blank_48h.jpeg "wikilink")
Clean Strep-Kan plate after 48 hours incubation. No contamination growth
observed.
[Media:CRISPR-180112-StrepKan_blank_48h.jpeg](Media:CRISPR-180112-StrepKan_blank_48h.jpeg "wikilink")
Agar plate with the post-protocol bacteria incubated 48 hours (control
sample): much growth (overgrown).
[Media:CRISPR-180112-Agar_Bact_48h.jpeg](Media:CRISPR-180112-Agar_Bact_48h.jpeg "wikilink")
Strep-Kan plate with the post-protocol bacteria incubation 48 hours
(CRISPR result): no growth.
[Media:CRISPR-180112-StrepKan_CrisprBact_48h.jpeg](Media:CRISPR-180112-StrepKan_CrisprBact_48h.jpeg "wikilink")

## News References

- Video: bacteria evolving antibiotic resistance in 11 days.
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yybsSqcB7mE>
- Video: CRISPR Patent Controversy:
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IboHEQumDGc>