![300 px](_sb5_launch_still.jpg "300 px") ![530
px](_sb3_IMG_6899_small.jpg "530 px")

A collection of stuff about HacDC's near space initiatives, including
the *Hackerspaces In Space* Contest entry (2010).

# Current Status

Project Spaceblimp is back! Spaceblimp has been a multi-discipline club
effort to build, launch, track, and recover a [High-altitude
Balloon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-altitude_balloon). So far
HacDC has launched [6 Spaceblimps](Template:Spaceblimp "wikilink"), with
[Spaceblimp 5](HacDC_Spaceblimp_5 "wikilink") reaching a maximum
altitude of 118,533 ft and [Spaceblimp 6](HacDC_Spaceblimp_6 "wikilink")
reaching 104,023 ft on 15 October 2016. The next iteration is expected
in Spring 2018.

# Come be involved in [Spaceblimp 6](HacDC_Spaceblimp_6 "wikilink")

Since Global Space Balloon Challenge 2016 (GSBC) just ended, there is no
better time than now to start planning for participation in, but not
limited to, the GSBC 2017 challenge. HacDC has had some preliminary
discussions with the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) regarding some of
their STEM initiatives which align well with our Spaceblimp project.
This presents a great opportunity for HacDC to collaborate with the NRL
and local area schools to assist students in preparing for the next GSBC
or other balloon events. Besides helping young minds grow, we could also
expand in to other STEAM initiatives and work side-by-side with
distinguished researchers and scientists from the NRL.

Supplies and equipment are not an issue. Hands on help is. We need
embedded hardware, software, FPGA, and RF engineers, licensed amateur
radio operators, project developers, crafts people, decorators,
coordinators, outreach specialists and educators. However, no one with
helping hands or a willingness to learn will be turned away.

# History of the HacDC Spaceblimp Project

- On Aug 7, 2010, we launched our first balloon: [HacDC Spaceblimp
  1](HacDC_Spaceblimp_1 "wikilink"). Its epic journey began well enough,
  but the antenna came loose somewhere around 60,000 ft and we never
  heard from it again. Until three months later, when a farmer found it
  in her field, called up a friend (who happened to be an engineer) and
  it came back home. The pictures are fantastic, but the telemetry data
  was lost -- it overwrote itself many times over before the batteries
  finally gave up.

<!-- -->

- Following (what we thought was) the loss of Spaceblimp-1, we scrambled
  and launched [HacDC Spaceblimp 2](HacDC_Spaceblimp_2 "wikilink") on
  Aug 21. It went flawlessly -- fast, light, and with good radio contact
  the whole way through. It may be the third fastest-ascending amateur
  radio balloon. We were disqualified from the Hackerspaces in Space
  competition because we went over budget, but they said we would have
  come in fourth if not. Sigh. But again, it was an inspiring success.

<!-- -->

- [HacDC Spaceblimp 3](HacDC_Spaceblimp_3 "wikilink") was successfully
  launched and retrieved on 13 Nov 2010 with a much more involved
  payload than previous versions. More cameras, HD video, more radios,
  an accelerometer, geiger counter, pressure sensor. Weight and price
  weren't constraints this time.

<!-- -->

- [HacDC Spaceblimp 4](HacDC_Spaceblimp_4 "wikilink") set the HacDC
  altitude record, topping out at 103,764 ft! This flight got fantastic
  video -- make sure to check out the two youtube links.

<!-- -->

- Insatiable and unstoppable, the HacDC team puts up [HacDC Spaceblimp
  5](HacDC_Spaceblimp_5 "wikilink") on July 9, 2011. We bought a
  yet-bigger balloon to try to get higher, and so: 118,533 ft!

<!-- -->

- [HacDC Spaceblimp 6](HacDC_Spaceblimp_6 "wikilink") was launched in
  October 2016, reaching 104,023 ft with HD video, instrumentation and
  various GPS radio trackers. It was the first Spaceblimp that captured
  video of its own balloon and parachute. It was recovered in record
  time just 20 minutes after landing despite failure of its primary
  radio transmitter (the backup worked!) and the video is now on
  YouTube.

<!-- -->

- [HacDC Spaceblimp 7](HacDC_Spaceblimp_7 "wikilink") is planned for
  late March 2018 with various GoPro HD cameras, a new TrackSoar
  GPS/Radio tracker, three Raspberry Pi Zeros and a gyroscopic
  stabilizer.

<!-- -->

- **If you want to get involved or learn more or contribute to the
  program...[Subscribe to the Spaceblimp email
  list](http://hacdc.org/mailman/listinfo/spaceblimp)**

# Related Links

- [HacDC Spaceblimp Flickr
  Group](http://www.flickr.com/groups/spaceblimp/)
- [All HacDC Spaceblimp photos (hosted on ITechGeek's
  Flickr)](https://www.flickr.com/photos/itechgeek/collections/72157627971098680/)

GPS visualizations of balloon trajectory from the Flickr Group (made
with GPS Visualizer <http://www.gpsvisualizer.com/>):

[Google Earth GPS trajectory
visualization](http://www.flickr.com/photos/79273063@N00/4946912327/)
and [Google Maps GPS trajectory
visualization](http://www.flickr.com/photos/79273063@N00/4947501800/)

<noinclude> </noinclude>