## Time and Location


Date: December 21st 2021

Called to order at 6:40pm

BOD Members present: Brian, Tayeb, Matt, John, Michelle

Members present:

Members remote: None

Others present:

[Quorum](Quorum "wikilink")


Quorum met?

`   yes`

## Director Reports (Governance related stuff)

### President's Report

### Vice President's Report

### Treasurer's Report

### Secretary's Report

### Director-at-Large Reports

## Agenda

### Agenda Item \#1: Decision-making: requiring a quorum for all meetings

- General agreement this was the way to continue to schedule meetings
  and re-schedule meetings as necessary
- Where a quorum to meet = 1/4th of board members; quorum to pay \$1000
  item = 1/3rd of board members

### Agenda Item \#2: Board elections: clarification of roles and setting a date for elections

- must be in Feb or Mar (according to bylaws)
- Kevin open to being At-Large
- Tayeb planning on departing
- Karen can be asked for a position
- John glad to be At-Large
- set to vote on members meeting last meeting Mar 9th
- Matt glad to be Treasurer
- Michelle glad to be President

### Agenda Item \#3: Equipment - donations. Requesting and receiving donations

- Michelle will respond to donors and copy board and know who's nearby
  (Gabe, John, Tayeb are close by).
- Include in email "want it to be tax deductible? might take a little
  research on our end." to get estimate and receipt.

### Agenda Item \#4: Getting (and keeping) additional helpers

- Supporting instructors & potential new instructors
- Managing volunteers & types of volunteers we need & volunteer projects
  - Volunteers can do Remote - given that we meet them, a BOD vouches
    for them; can get into the space if supervised

### Agenda Item \#5: Membership. Policy for non-members attending virtual classes/events.

### Agenda Item \#6: Membership. Should institute a virtual membership plan?

### Agenda Item \#7: Communications - committee. ???Unified Data??? Phase 1: Wiki-Website-Meetup-Google

- Michelle: doing the web work
  - Michelle: for designs, will send out draft text to BOD for review
  - Michelle: will create a distribution email list (something like:
    data-unifed@hacdc.org)
- Ken: doing the wiki work and backups

### Agenda Item \#8: Covid - Health. Air quality monitor (to replace Ken???s) via Raspberry Pi HomeBridge OS

- Michelle: we've had Ken's air quality monitors over a year and we need
  to make a plan to return them and use our own system. Maybe do a DIY
  system and can use Ken's tools to compare/quality control before final
  return to him.
- John: has logged air quality monitor; will gradually phase out and use
  Ken's to QA our raspberry pi.
- Matt: open to trying a solution for HacDC space
- Matt: uses OpenHat (spelling?) now control home lighting
- Michelle: some (possibly) helpful videos:
  - [Arduino system but maybe no logging, no wifi? @
    YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esY_OtDLv7g&t=135s%7CSimple)
  - [Quality Raspberry Pi Homekit (buuut...Apple?) @
    YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=air+quality+raspberry+pi+homekit%7CAir)
  - [complete house system hook-up @
    YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/SuperHouseTV%7CGuy's)

### Agenda Item \#9: Safety - Waiver. Hold harmless agreement for existing and new members

- Tayeb: has anyone know what our insurance policy is?
- John: who would we even put a claim into with?
- Matt: wants quarterly / semi-annually to list everything and keep
  informed
- John: would get insurance for the space
- Michelle: should start that process now for new equipment
- Tayeb: should request this

### Agenda Item \#10: Basement improvements. Decluttering and organizing the basement.

### Agenda Item \#11: Government contracts. Apply for a SAM code & DUNS number.

- Michelle: will get this started end of Spring

### Agenda Item \#12: Comms Systems. TechSoup access for free Zoom access (see John).

- John/Matt: needs to reset his password:
  <https://www.techsoup.org/ForgotPassword>

### Agenda Item \#13: Newsletter. Regular newsletter.

- John: start with post-election news
- Tayeb: will solicit to membership for help to get this done every
  other month. Simultaneous announcement on Twitter, FB, Instagram, etc.
  - New elections
  - New grant
  - New website (ie. unified data)

### Agenda Item \#14: Membership clarifying information and changes.

- Meetup events are entirely open - nonmembers welcome
- Courses (on-site) =\> members only no charge; nonmembers for a charge
- Open Nights - MicroFab; AutoCAD - more social, more club events
- Virtual membership - tabled until we can be in the space

### Agenda Item \#15: The Space.

Someone to man the space -

- Way to track and equipment and fix equipment (must be person easy to
  get along with)
- Way to decide when something reached end of useful life =\> announce
  available to members (two week wait for anyone to take) =\> two weeks
  before for anyone to throw away =\> sell stuff on eBay

Decommission space / Health Check of Equipment

- John: do another annual "Spring Cleaning" clean-out to get rid of
  stuff not worth fixing

Basement space

- Matt: noticed there was water in the basement; space floods a lot but
  not to the level where its too high
  - Tayeb: there is drainage outside the door (John thinks is part of
    the problem)

Roof work

- John: (question really for HAM Radio Club)

Spring Cleaning: Feb / Mar -- probably multi-day; when new board takes
over

- basement
- roof
- space decommission

### Agenda Item: Miscellaneous.

- Due to holidays - cancelling all events until non until Jan 1st (even
  virtual ones)

## Adjournment

Adjourned by at 8:01p by Tayeb

[Category:Meeting Minutes](Category:Meeting_Minutes "wikilink")