This is a proposal to create a holiday-themed program for kids, aimed at
raising money for and awareness of [the Loaves & Fishes
program](http://www.loavesandfishesdc.org/). Saturday night (weekend in
December) would be the best time.

## Proposal Vitals

**Status**: In Progress, Discussion

- Project Lead: [Q](User:Q "wikilink")'''
- Proposed Budget: \$500.00'''
- Goals:
  - To have a high profile charity event to stimulate HacDC's presence
    in the community
  - To boost our 501(c)(3) application
  - To build relationships within the church

## Detailed Proposal

The idea is basically to have the Church transformed into a technology
playground for kids of the area, in a very Christmas type fashion. The
main things we could have is someone (Nick? hehe) dressed up as Santa
sitting on the stage talking with kids, we could have plenty of food for
both kids and maybe the homeless (like [the F&L
program](http://www.loavesandfishesdc.org/) already does)... The
stage/meeting area in the Church could be the kids area and then we
could have a separate area for just [the F&L
program](http://www.loavesandfishesdc.org/) portion... So with foods and
Santa comes the best part and the main reason we would want to be
involved...

We can have little workshops setup throughout the church with little
Christmas-type kits where we can teach the kids about technology and
creating/MAKEing/building and certainly the reality of developing
whatever you dream.

Ideally, I was thinking the workshops would include things like: NYCR's
lazz0r and 3D printing (with some of us helping them design Christmas
type objects to build, we need a project to collaborate with them
anyway), One of MAKE:DC's awesome little kit builds designed with a
Christmas theme for kids (Mark, want to design?), Maybe Elliot can do a
micro controller class where they make some type of LED Christmas tree
...

The reality of it is that we would need a whole lot of support and
participation from our members and friends of HacDC. This doesn't have
to be something amazingly EPIC at first, but if we stay around awhile
(even if we do move) we could do this anually. Not only would this help
our 501c3 but it's also a great thing to do for our community and for
the holidays in general.

Richard has lots of turkeys and may be able to bring in his old chamber
group together for it

[Category:Proposed Projects](Category:Proposed_Projects "wikilink")