[Bike Maintenance Class:](Bike_Maintenance_Class "wikilink") Week 2,
Basic Fit, Component Materials, and Brake System

## Judging Bike Fit: Stand Over Height

Finding a bike that fits correctly is important, but its also is mostly
about personal preference. So what should you look at?
The most basic component of bike fit is stand over height. On the bike
its the distance from the top of the top tube to the ground. On the
rider this measurement should be at least an inch or two less than the
distance from your crotch to the ground. If you don't have that
clearance you could really hurt yourself when dismounting. Stand over
height differs between bikes that are the same size based on how the
manufacture measures size and the bikes geometry. ![200
px](standoverheight.jpg "200 px")

This will tell you if a bike fits you most of the time. While there are
other components to bike fit, most of them are adjustments, which we
will cover later in this class.

## Frame Materials

Bikes frames are made out of three types of material:

- **Steel** - If your using your bike on a daily basis and have to lock
  it up outside sometimes(but never overnight!) steel is what you want.
  It can take more abuse than aluminium or carbon and sometimes even be
  realigned after a particularly hard impact that would total other
  frames. Avoid frames made of high carbon or high-tensile steel (some
  times called hi-ten). Instead look for frames made of an alloy such as
  chromoly (chromium-molybdenum) as they are lighter, stronger, and
  resist rust better. If the frame doesn't have a sticker stating what
  its made of, there's a good chance is straight gauge, high-tensile
  steel.
- **Aluminium** - Stiffer and lighter than steel, aluminium is ideal for
  road bikes where you want to be putting down maximum power, or in a
  bike with suspension where you aren't relying on the frame to absorb
  shock. The thin tubing in nicer aluminium bikes is prone to dents and
  dings so be careful when leaning it up against poles and street sights
  to lock it up. Also, if your frame ever gets bent, that it, game over,
  time for a new frame.
- **Carbon** - Carbon fiber frame are made by laminating sheets of
  carbon fiber together with epoxy in a vacuum mold. This gives
  designers a great deal of flexibility in design that can result in
  extremely light bikes that are stiff in some area and good at
  absorbing vibration in others. The down side is that carbon fiber is
  brittle and comparatively more expensive. If your riding a carbon
  bike, you shouldn't be locking it up anywhere outside.

**Butted vs Straight Gauge**: Double and triple butted tubing is thinner
in the center of the tube than at the ends, taking pounds of the weight
off a frame and providing a more comfortable ride.

## Saddle and Cockpit Set-Up

### Saddle Height and Position

- **Level**

Your saddle should always be about level or tipped slightly towards the
front of the bike. Level is measured from the highest point on the rear
of the saddle to the hightest point on the front of the saddle (the
nose). You can change this slightly but if the saddle is tilted to far
forward, your going to put extra pressure on your wrists, to far back
and the saddle's nose is going to start putting pressure on bits you
wish it wouldn't.

- **Height**

When in the saddle, with the peddles at 11 and 5 o'clock, place the
heels of you feet on the peddles (you might want to get a friend to hold
the bike steady for you). Adjust your saddle so that the extended leg
bends slightly at the knee. The idea is the more leg extension you can
get, the more efficient the stroke, but you *never* want your leg to
extent fully as this is very bad for you knees. ![200
px](saddleheight.jpg "200 px")

- **Setback**

When in the saddle, with the peddles at 3 and 9 o'clock, the front of
your leading knee should be plumb with the peddles spindle.

### Handlebar/Stem Position

Seeing as you can have anything from drop bars to 5" risers on a bike,
this is mostly personal preference. Just make sure you knees aren't
going to hit the bars when your taking a sharp corner. A more upright
position gives you better visibility while a lower position will make
you more aerodynamic.

### Cockpit Set-up

All of this is personal preference, but here's a starting point.

- **Flat Handlebars**
- **Drop Handlebars**

## Breaks

### System Overview/Styles

#### Pull Ratio

#### Mountain vs Road Cables

#### Calliper, Cantilever, and Linear Pull

##### Quick Release

===Replacing Cable and Housing

#### What's the Difference Between Break Housing and Shift Housing

#### Measuring and Cutting Housing

#### Installing Brake Cable

### Replacing Brake Pads

#### Styles of Pads

## Overview, adjusting, and installing pads

[Category:Bike_Maintenance_Class](Category:Bike_Maintenance_Class "wikilink")