The Classroom TV is hooked up to various PCs.

Once we repair'd it by exhaustively testing each LED on the device and
replacing the broken one.

## The TV

The current TV is a 60-inch **Sharp Aquos LC-60LE920UN**.

Manual is available at
<http://files.sharpusa.com/Downloads/ForHome/HomeEntertainment/LCDTVs/Manuals/tel_man_LC52_60LE920UN.pdf>

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rhSiDx5P9s4>

It should be labeled appropriately for ease of use. There is a remote
control. If the screen won't come on and the little LED logo at the
bottom middle blinks instead of coming on solid, reset according to
instructions on the device.

Sometimes when there's a problem, it displays a constant small blue box
which reads **\[K\] 60LE810UN** which the careful reader will note looks
remarkably like a model number...

### Resetting the TV

<http://www.fixya.com/support/t17617780-60_sharp_aquos_power_indicator_flashing>

POWER LIGHT FLASHES ONE SHORT AND ONE LONG FLASH.

What is the problem? THE PROBLEM IS THAT ONE OF THE LED's STRIPS IS BAD!

SHARP AQUOS LC60LE810UN RESET INSTRUCTIONS

`   1. Plug in TV to electric current First then wait until LED start flashing.`
`   2. Press Volume DOWN [ - ] HOLD BUTTON.`
`   3. Press Channel UP [ ^ ] HOLD BUTTON.`
`   4. Press Power [ (') ] HOLD ALL three buttons until LED stops flashing and then release.`

This will reset the TV in order to fix the problem.

THE FIX IS TO REPLACE ONE OF THE LED's. You need to open the back of the
TV and you will also need to remove the front cover and panel to get to
the LEDs. The TV will need to be placed facedown and on the backside.
This is a 2 person job to turn the TV on its sides. Be careful with the
white computer connectors (wide white strip) at the base of the TV where
the TV stand sits. You will need to disconnect this in order to get to
the LED's.

Once you have the LED's exposed, you will need to unplug one by one by
placing the new strip next to it until the unit turns on. You will have
to use the RESET procedure above if the Power lite flashes. The Power
lite MUST BE ON SOLID - no blinking in order to test the strips. The
LED's will flash, but still one of them will be burned. Even if you
stare and all the strip light-up, you will still need to check
one-by-one!

Once the TV lights up, your face will also light up with joy! Put
everything back together and you are set. If you need the complete
instructions which come from Sharp as to how to disassemble the unit,
please send me an e-mail to LGTR61@YAHOO.ES. Please note I don't check
this address daily, so a few days wait may take for you to receive the
instructions.

Where can you buy the LED's - try searching Yahoo.com or Google.com for
resellers.

SHARP AQUOS LC60LE810UN LCD STRIP INFORMATION

`   LONG STRIP (49 LED's)`
`   FRONT SIDE BACK SIDE RL 94v-0`
`   E329419`
`   1029`
`   LFa`
`   Sn-Ag-Cu`
`   Ps-1`
`   K4458TP`
`   4458ZZ`
`   0921FM`
`   104863`
`   ee03A`

`   SHORT STRIP (30 LED's)`
`   FRONT SIDE BACK SIDE`
`   RL 94v-0`
`   E329419`
`   1025 LFa`
`   Sn-Ag-Cu`
`   Ps-1`
`   K4459TP`
`   4459ZZ`
`   0714FM`
`   302213`
`   Mm05A `

Posted on Dec 11, 2013

SOURCE:

No POWER

How many times does the POWER led flash per second? (Dont worry about
the OPC).

`   * 1x (steady constant blink) = Lamps or inverters`
`   * 2x = Power Supply`
`   * 3x = Main Unit`

If i am reading it correctly, looks like the POWER led is flashing 2x,
which means it is a power supply failure. Either way, your TV needs to
have a board replaced, there isn't anything you can do to fix it
yourself. Try locating your local sharp authorized service center to
repair your TV (1-800-237-4277)

Posted on Mar 16, 2008

## The PCs

### Windows VR box

(it's grody and uses proprietary poison).

### Classroom TV

(highly superior build -- uses Debian Linux, a free software
distribution, although we have compromised to allow non-free software
and firmware).

    2018-02-27 21:29 <thossou> something's up with the GPU on the classroom tv what for it won't work
    2018-02-27 21:30 <thossou> but the fans turn
    2018-02-27 21:30 <thossou> http://dlcdnet.asus.com/pub/ASUS/mb/LGA1366/Sabertooth_X58/e5995_sabertooth_X58.pdf#p55

## Instructions for use

### How to remotely control the classroom-tv PC

(copy from the desktop of classroom PC)

### How to use VR

### How to run a videoconference with another space using BBB

[Category:Room Displays](Category:Room_Displays "wikilink")
[Category:HacDC Computers](Category:HacDC_Computers "wikilink")