## Overview

Welcome to the Culture Jamming page. Here we will explore and document
the history and practice of culture jamming. Feel free to add to this
wiki if you have gems to share.

From [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_jamming): Coined
by the collage band Negativland on its release JamCon '84, the phrase
"culture jamming" comes from the idea of radio jamming: that public
frequencies can be pirated and subverted for independent communication,
or to disrupt dominant frequencies\[12\].

\[12\] [Disrupt Dominant
Frequencies](http://disruptdominantfrequencies.net/)

## Museums, collections, directories

[The Alternative Museum](http://www.alternativemuseum.org/) (Doesn't
appear to have been updated since 2003)

## DIY projects related to CJ

[MAKE electronics
projects](http://blog.makezine.com/archive/2009/12/culture_jamming_open_source_hardwar.html)

## DC Area Culture Jamming

[Capitol Climage Action](http://www.capitolclimateaction.org/)
(apparently the webmaster has moved to SF?)

## Examples

- Barbie Liberation Organization
  - [Youtube Video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OVT4T7OR3iQ)

## Articles and papers

- [Elliot Feldman, Aug 22 2007,
  AP](http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/350004/what_is_culture_jamming.html)
- [Mark Dery, Dec 23 1990, NY
  Times](http://www.nytimes.com/1990/12/23/arts/the-merry-pranksters-and-the-art-of-the-hoax.html)

## Movers and shakers

[Mark Dery popularized the term "culture jamming" in his
writing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Dery)

[Gareth Branwyn](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gareth_branwyn) has
written about and practiced culture jamming writ large, influenced in
part by the theories and practice of the
[Dadaists](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dada), the
[Surrealists](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surrealism), the
[Futurists](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Futurism), the 60s
counter-culture, [The Situationist
International](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Situationist_International),
[Fluxus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluxus), [William
Blake](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_blake), and other
proto-culture-jammers and thinkers. During the 80s and 90s he practiced
[mail art](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mail_art), published
[zines](http://www.streettech.com/bcp/BCPgraf/CyberCulture/goinggaga.html),
wrote early DIY-culture texts such as [The Happy Mutant
Handbook](http://www.amazon.com/Happy-Mutant-Handbook-Carla-Sinclair/dp/1573225029/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1268709584&sr=8-1),
the seminal HyperCard stack, [Beyond
Cyberpunk!](http://www.streettech.com/bcp/), held countless discussions
on the topic on [The Well](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_WELL), and
articles for culture hacking champions, [Mondo
2000](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mondo_2000) and
[Wired](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wired_%28magazine%29) where he
created and edited the longest running column for that publication,
[Jargon
Watch](http://www.amazon.com/Jargon-Watch-Dictionary-Jitterati-Hardwired/dp/1888869062/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1268710455&sr=8-1),
about the accelerating influence that information technology was
exerting on the evolution of the English language. In 1997, he wrote
[Jamming the
Media](http://www.amazon.com/Jamming-Media-Gareth-Branwyn/dp/0811817954/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1268708624&sr=8-2),
a citizen's guide to reclaiming the tools of communication. He is
currently Editor in Chief of the [MAKE Blog](http://blog.makezine.com/).

[Category:HacDC_Culture](Category:HacDC_Culture "wikilink")