Trying to piece together whatever limits would apply to various projects
involving small aircraft-like platforms.

Since the powers that be have made actually finding the rules that would
apply to, well, any specific case really, very difficult.. don't take
what's listed here as accurate, current, or complete.

## Jargon

Moored vs tethered
tethered seems to be when you have a single line holding a balloon in
place to temporarily hold it prior to release

moored seems more of an end result, holding the baloon in horizontal
position in addition to vertical

Shielded
Operating a moored balloon near, but lower than, a structure.

NOTAM
Notice to Airmen, notices from FAA about changes, hazards along flight
paths.

Oddly, I have not found anywhere that says these are legally binding,
they do not seem to be actual regulations, just friendly reminders of
regulations or restrictions.

TFR
Temporary Flight Restriction, FAA enforced restrictions.. "temporary" is
sometimes a misnomer

ADIZ
Air Defense Identification Zone, most of North America, planes need to
be in radio contact, etc.

SFRA
Special Flight Rules Area, an area with a whole new bag of regulations,
DC for one.

## Federal Regulations

Within the "Code of Federal Regulations" parts relating to airspace fall
under "Title 14", FAA regulations.

- <http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/retrieveECFR?gp=1&SID=ddd67bb738ed6d267afd420fd9dfd893&ty=HTML&h=L&n=14y2.0.1.3.15&r=PART>

  ..this link probably won't work, but you can perform a search there

### Summary of Part 101 bits that apply to kites and moored balloons

- These rules apply to:

  moored balloons with either a diameter \> 6 feet, or gas capacity of
  \> 115 cubic feet

  kites \> 5 pounds
- Operation:

  can't create a hazard to people or property

  cannot allow objects to drop from platfrom IF it creates a hazard
- Operation airspace (in non-restricted area)

  500 feet below cloud base

  \< 500 feet AGL

  if visibility \< 3 miles

  must be \> 5 miles from any airport


  ..except if below top of any structure within 250 feet (known as
  "sheilded" operation)

  IF operating "unshielded", must notify nearest ATC if \> 150 feet AGL
- (In all areas) Moored balloon must have automatic rapid deflation
  device
- Time of operation

  if at night, it's gotta be lit up, including the mooring lines

  if in day, mooring lines need pennants every 50 feet starting at 150
  feet AGL

#### Meaning...

Keep it under 6 feet in diameter and \< 115 cubic feet and under 5
pounds.


( Near sea level He at STP gives roughly 1 oz / ft3, so 115 ft3 -\> 7
pounds )

"Part 101" covers balloons, kites, and amateur rockets.

    e-CFR Data is current as of August 7, 2013
    return arrow Return to Search Results

    Browse Previous | Browse Next

    Title 14: Aeronautics and Space
    PART 101???MOORED BALLOONS, KITES, AMATEUR ROCKETS AND UNMANNED FREE BALLOONS
    Contents

    Subpart A???General
    ?? 101.1   Applicability.
    ?? 101.3   Waivers.
    ?? 101.5   Operations in prohibited or restricted areas.
    ?? 101.7   Hazardous operations.

    Subpart B???Moored Balloons and Kites
    ?? 101.11   Applicability.
    ?? 101.13   Operating limitations.
    ?? 101.15   Notice requirements.
    ?? 101.17   Lighting and marking requirements.
    ?? 101.19   Rapid deflation device.

    Subpart C??? Amateur Rockets
    ?? 101.21   Applicability.
    ?? 101.22   Definitions.
    ?? 101.23   General operating limitations.
    ?? 101.25   Operating limitations for Class 2-High Power Rockets and Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets.
    ?? 101.27   ATC notification for all launches.
    ?? 101.29   Information requirements.

    Subpart D???Unmanned Free Balloons
    ?? 101.31   Applicability.
    ?? 101.33   Operating limitations.
    ?? 101.35   Equipment and marking requirements.
    ?? 101.37   Notice requirements.
    ?? 101.39   Balloon position reports.

    Authority: 49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40103, 40113-40114, 45302, 44502, 44514, 44701-44702, 44721, 46308.

    return arrow Back to Top
    Subpart A???General

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.1   Applicability.

    (a) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States, of the following:

    (1) Except as provided for in ?? 101.7, any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet.

    (2) Except as provided for in ?? 101.7, any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable.

    (3) Any amateur rocket except aerial firework displays.

    (4) Except as provided for in ?? 101.7, any unmanned free balloon that???

    (i) Carries a payload package that weighs more than four pounds and has a weight/size ratio of more than three ounces per square inch on any surface of the package, determined by dividing the total weight in ounces of the payload package by the area in square inches of its smallest surface;

    (ii) Carries a payload package that weighs more than six pounds;

    (iii) Carries a payload, of two or more packages, that weighs more than 12 pounds; or

    (iv) Uses a rope or other device for suspension of the payload that requires an impact force of more than 50 pounds to separate the suspended payload from the balloon.

    (b) For the purposes of this part, a gyroglider attached to a vehicle on the surface of the earth is considered to be a kite.

    [Doc. No. 1580, 28 FR 6721, June 29, 1963, as amended by Amdt. 101-1, 29 FR 46, Jan. 3, 1964; Amdt. 101-3, 35 FR 8213, May 26, 1970; Amdt. 101-8, 73 FR 73781, Dec. 4, 2008; 74 FR 38092, July 31, 2009]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.3   Waivers.

    No person may conduct operations that require a deviation from this part except under a certificate of waiver issued by the Administrator.

    [Doc. No. 1580, 28 FR 6721, June 29, 1963]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.5   Operations in prohibited or restricted areas.

    No person may operate a moored balloon, kite, amateur rocket, or unmanned free balloon in a prohibited or restricted area unless he has permission from the using or controlling agency, as appropriate.

    [Doc. No. 1457, 29 FR 46, Jan. 3, 1964, as amended at 74 FR 38092, July 31, 2009]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.7   Hazardous operations.

    (a) No person may operate any moored balloon, kite, amateur rocket, or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons, or their property.

    (b) No person operating any moored balloon, kite, amateur rocket, or unmanned free balloon may allow an object to be dropped therefrom, if such action creates a hazard to other persons or their property.

    (Sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))

    [Doc. No. 12800, 39 FR 22252, June 21, 1974, as amended at 74 FR 38092, July 31, 2009]

    return arrow Back to Top
    Subpart B???Moored Balloons and Kites

    Source: Docket No. 1580, 28 FR 6722, June 29, 1963, unless otherwise noted.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.11   Applicability.

    This subpart applies to the operation of moored balloons and kites. However, a person operating a moored balloon or kite within a restricted area must comply only with ?? 101.19 and with additional limitations imposed by the using or controlling agency, as appropriate.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.13   Operating limitations.

    (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate a moored balloon or kite???

    (1) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud;

    (2) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth;

    (3) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles; or

    (4) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport.

    (b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it, if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.15   Notice requirements.

    No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless, at least 24 hours before beginning the operation, he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation:

    (a) The names and addresses of the owners and operators.

    (b) The size of the balloon or the size and weight of the kite.

    (c) The location of the operation.

    (d) The height above the surface of the earth at which the balloon or kite is to be operated.

    (e) The date, time, and duration of the operation.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.17   Lighting and marking requirements.

    (a) No person may operate a moored balloon or kite, between sunset and sunrise unless the balloon or kite, and its mooring lines, are lighted so as to give a visual warning equal to that required for obstructions to air navigation in the FAA publication ???Obstruction Marking and Lighting???.

    (b) No person may operate a moored balloon or kite between sunrise and sunset unless its mooring lines have colored pennants or streamers attached at not more than 50 foot intervals beginning at 150 feet above the surface of the earth and visible for at least one mile.

    (Sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))

    [Doc. No. 1580, 28 FR 6722, June 29, 1963, as amended by Amdt. 101-4, 39 FR 22252, June 21, 1974]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.19   Rapid deflation device.

    No person may operate a moored balloon unless it has a device that will automatically and rapidly deflate the balloon if it escapes from its moorings. If the device does not function properly, the operator shall immediately notify the nearest ATC facility of the location and time of the escape and the estimated flight path of the balloon.

    return arrow Back to Top
    Subpart C??? Amateur Rockets

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.21   Applicability.

    (a) This subpart applies to operating unmanned rockets. However, a person operating an unmanned rocket within a restricted area must comply with ?? 101.25(b)(7)(ii) and with any additional limitations imposed by the using or controlling agency.

    (b) A person operating an unmanned rocket other than an amateur rocket as defined in ?? 1.1 of this chapter must comply with 14 CFR Chapter III.

    [Doc. No. FAA-2007-27390, 73 FR 73781, Dec. 4, 2008]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.22   Definitions.

    The following definitions apply to this subpart:

    (a) Class 1???Model Rocket means an amateur rocket that:

    (1) Uses no more than 125 grams (4.4 ounces) of propellant;

    (2) Uses a slow-burning propellant;

    (3) Is made of paper, wood, or breakable plastic;

    (4) Contains no substantial metal parts; and

    (5) Weighs no more than 1,500 grams (53 ounces), including the propellant.

    (b) Class 2???High-Power Rocket means an amateur rocket other than a model rocket that is propelled by a motor or motors having a combined total impulse of 40,960 Newton-seconds (9,208 pound-seconds) or less.

    (c) Class 3???Advanced High-Power Rocket means an amateur rocket other than a model rocket or high-power rocket.

    [Doc. No. FAA-2007-27390, 73 FR 73781, Dec. 4, 2008]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.23   General operating limitations.

    (a) You must operate an amateur rocket in such a manner that it:

    (1) Is launched on a suborbital trajectory;

    (2) When launched, must not cross into the territory of a foreign country unless an agreement is in place between the United States and the country of concern;

    (3) Is unmanned; and

    (4) Does not create a hazard to persons, property, or other aircraft.

    (b) The FAA may specify additional operating limitations necessary to ensure that air traffic is not adversely affected, and public safety is not jeopardized.

    [Doc. No. FAA-2007-27390, 73 FR 73781, Dec. 4, 2008]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.25   Operating limitations for Class 2-High Power Rockets and Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets.

    When operating Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets, you must comply with the General Operating Limitations of ?? 101.23. In addition, you must not operate Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets???

    (a) At any altitude where clouds or obscuring phenomena of more than five-tenths coverage prevails;

    (b) At any altitude where the horizontal visibility is less than five miles;

    (c) Into any cloud;

    (d) Between sunset and sunrise without prior authorization from the FAA;

    (e) Within 9.26 kilometers (5 nautical miles) of any airport boundary without prior authorization from the FAA;

    (f) In controlled airspace without prior authorization from the FAA;

    (g) Unless you observe the greater of the following separation distances from any person or property that is not associated with the operations:

    (1) Not less than one-quarter the maximum expected altitude;

    (2) 457 meters (1,500 ft.);

    (h) Unless a person at least eighteen years old is present, is charged with ensuring the safety of the operation, and has final approval authority for initiating high-power rocket flight; and

    (i) Unless reasonable precautions are provided to report and control a fire caused by rocket activities.

    [74 FR 38092, July 31, 2009, as amended by Amdt. 101-8, 74 FR 47435, Sept. 16, 2009]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.27   ATC notification for all launches.

    No person may operate an unmanned rocket other than a Class 1???Model Rocket unless that person gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility nearest to the place of intended operation no less than 24 hours before and no more than three days before beginning the operation:

    (a) The name and address of the operator; except when there are multiple participants at a single event, the name and address of the person so designated as the event launch coordinator, whose duties include coordination of the required launch data estimates and coordinating the launch event;

    (b) Date and time the activity will begin;

    (c) Radius of the affected area on the ground in nautical miles;

    (d) Location of the center of the affected area in latitude and longitude coordinates;

    (e) Highest affected altitude;

    (f) Duration of the activity;

    (g) Any other pertinent information requested by the ATC facility.

    [Doc. No. FAA-2007-27390, 73 FR 73781, Dec. 4, 2008, as amended at Doc. No. FAA-2007-27390, 74 FR 31843, July 6, 2009]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.29   Information requirements.

    (a) Class 2???High-Power Rockets . When a Class 2???High-Power Rocket requires a certificate of waiver or authorization, the person planning the operation must provide the information below on each type of rocket to the FAA at least 45 days before the proposed operation. The FAA may request additional information if necessary to ensure the proposed operations can be safely conducted. The information shall include for each type of Class 2 rocket expected to be flown:

    (1) Estimated number of rockets,

    (2) Type of propulsion (liquid or solid), fuel(s) and oxidizer(s),

    (3) Description of the launcher(s) planned to be used, including any airborne platform(s),

    (4) Description of recovery system,

    (5) Highest altitude, above ground level, expected to be reached,

    (6) Launch site latitude, longitude, and elevation, and

    (7) Any additional safety procedures that will be followed.

    (b) Class 3???Advanced High-Power Rockets . When a Class 3???Advanced High-Power Rocket requires a certificate of waiver or authorization the person planning the operation must provide the information below for each type of rocket to the FAA at least 45 days before the proposed operation. The FAA may request additional information if necessary to ensure the proposed operations can be safely conducted. The information shall include for each type of Class 3 rocket expected to be flown:

    (1) The information requirements of paragraph (a) of this section,

    (2) Maximum possible range,

    (3) The dynamic stability characteristics for the entire flight profile,

    (4) A description of all major rocket systems, including structural, pneumatic, propellant, propulsion, ignition, electrical, avionics, recovery, wind-weighting, flight control, and tracking,

    (5) A description of other support equipment necessary for a safe operation,

    (6) The planned flight profile and sequence of events,

    (7) All nominal impact areas, including those for any spent motors and other discarded hardware, within three standard deviations of the mean impact point,

    (8) Launch commit criteria,

    (9) Countdown procedures, and

    (10) Mishap procedures.

    [Doc. No. FAA-2007-27390, 73 FR 73781, Dec. 4, 2008, as amended at Doc. No. FAA-2007-27390, 74 FR 31843, July 6, 2009]

    return arrow Back to Top
    Subpart D???Unmanned Free Balloons

    Source: Docket No. 1457, 29 FR 47, Jan. 3, 1964, unless otherwise noted.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.31   Applicability.

    This subpart applies to the operation of unmanned free balloons. However, a person operating an unmanned free balloon within a restricted area must comply only with ?? 101.33 (d) and (e) and with any additional limitations that are imposed by the using or controlling agency, as appropriate.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.33   Operating limitations.

    No person may operate an unmanned free balloon???

    (a) Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, below 2,000 feet above the surface within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class E airspace designated for an airport;

    (b) At any altitude where there are clouds or obscuring phenomena of more than five-tenths coverage;

    (c) At any altitude below 60,000 feet standard pressure altitude where the horizontal visibility is less than five miles;

    (d) During the first 1,000 feet of ascent, over a congested area of a city, town, or settlement or an open-air assembly of persons not associated with the operation; or

    (e) In such a manner that impact of the balloon, or part thereof including its payload, with the surface creates a hazard to persons or property not associated with the operation.

    [Doc. No. 1457, 29 FR 47, Jan. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 101-5, 56 FR 65662, Dec. 17, 1991]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.35   Equipment and marking requirements.

    (a) No person may operate an unmanned free balloon unless???

    (1) It is equipped with at least two payload cut-down systems or devices that operate independently of each other;

    (2) At least two methods, systems, devices, or combinations thereof, that function independently of each other, are employed for terminating the flight of the balloon envelope; and

    (3) The balloon envelope is equipped with a radar reflective device(s) or material that will present an echo to surface radar operating in the 200 MHz to 2700 MHz frequency range.

    The operator shall activate the appropriate devices required by paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section when weather conditions are less than those prescribed for operation under this subpart, or if a malfunction or any other reason makes the further operation hazardous to other air traffic or to persons and property on the surface.

    (b) No person may operate an unmanned free balloon below 60,000 feet standard pressure altitude between sunset and sunrise (as corrected to the altitude of operation) unless the balloon and its attachments and payload, whether or not they become separated during the operation, are equipped with lights that are visible for at least 5 miles and have a flash frequency of at least 40, and not more than 100, cycles per minute.

    (c) No person may operate an unmanned free balloon that is equipped with a trailing antenna that requires an impact force of more than 50 pounds to break it at any point, unless the antenna has colored pennants or streamers that are attached at not more than 50 foot intervals and that are visible for at least one mile.

    (d) No person may operate between sunrise and sunset an unmanned free balloon that is equipped with a suspension device (other than a highly conspicuously colored open parachute) more than 50 feet along, unless the suspension device is colored in alternate bands of high conspicuity colors or has colored pennants or streamers attached which are visible for at least one mile.

    (Sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))

    [Doc. No. 1457, 29 FR 47, Jan. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 101-2, 32 FR 5254, Mar. 29, 1967; Amdt. 101-4, 39 FR 22252, June 21, 1974]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.37   Notice requirements.

    (a) Prelaunch notice: Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate an unmanned free balloon unless, within 6 to 24 hours before beginning the operation, he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation:

    (1) The balloon identification.

    (2) The estimated date and time of launching, amended as necessary to remain within plus or minus 30 minutes.

    (3) The location of the launching site.

    (4) The cruising altitude.

    (5) The forecast trajectory and estimated time to cruising altitude or 60,000 feet standard pressure altitude, whichever is lower.

    (6) The length and diameter of the balloon, length of the suspension device, weight of the payload, and length of the trailing antenna.

    (7) The duration of flight.

    (8) The forecast time and location of impact with the surface of the earth.

    (b) For solar or cosmic disturbance investigations involving a critical time element, the information in paragraph (a) of this section shall be given within 30 minutes to 24 hours before beginning the operation.

    (c) Cancellation notice: If the operation is canceled, the person who intended to conduct the operation shall immediately notify the nearest FAA ATC facility.

    (d) Launch notice: Each person operating an unmanned free balloon shall notify the nearest FAA or military ATC facility of the launch time immediately after the balloon is launched.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 101.39   Balloon position reports.

    (a) Each person operating an unmanned free balloon shall:

    (1) Unless ATC requires otherwise, monitor the course of the balloon and record its position at least every two hours; and

    (2) Forward any balloon position reports requested by ATC.

    (b) One hour before beginning descent, each person operating an unmanned free balloon shall forward to the nearest FAA ATC facility the following information regarding the balloon:

    (1) The current geographical position.

    (2) The altitude.

    (3) The forecast time of penetration of 60,000 feet standard pressure altitude (if applicable).

    (4) The forecast trajectory for the balance of the flight.

    (5) The forecast time and location of impact with the surface of the earth.

    (c) If a balloon position report is not recorded for any two-hour period of flight, the person operating an unmanned free balloon shall immediately notify the nearest FAA ATC facility. The notice shall include the last recorded position and any revision of the forecast trajectory. The nearest FAA ATC facility shall be notified immediately when tracking of the balloon is re-established.

    (d) Each person operating an unmanned free balloon shall notify the nearest FAA ATC facility when the operation is ended.

## DC Regulations

Under Title 14, part 93, "Special Air Traffic Rules"

- <http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?c=ecfr&rgn=div5&view=text&node=14:2.0.1.3.11&idno=14#14:2.0.1.3.11.19>

This doesn't seem to apply to kites and tethered balloons at all. RC
aircraft and 'drones' aren't mentioned either but the jist seems to be
that if it's large enough to deliver a significantly harmful payload,
consider it restricted.

Otherwise it defines the restricted space and talks a lot about radio
communication requirements.

    e-CFR Data is current as of August 7, 2013
    Title 14: Aeronautics and Space
    PART 93???SPECIAL AIR TRAFFIC RULES

    Subpart V???Washington, DC Metropolitan Area Special Flight Rules Area

    Source: Doc. No. FAA-2004-17005, 73 FR 76213, Dec. 16, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.331   Purpose and applicability of this subpart.

    This subpart prescribes special air traffic rules for aircraft operating in the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area. Because identification and control of aircraft is required for reasons of national security, the areas described in this subpart constitute national defense airspace. The purpose of establishing this area is to facilitate the tracking of, and communication with, aircraft to deter persons who would use an aircraft as a weapon, or as a means of delivering weapons, to conduct an attack on persons, property, or buildings in the area. This subpart applies to pilots conducting any type of flight operations in the airspace designated as the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area Special Flight Rules Area (DC SFRA) (as defined in ?? 93.335), which includes the airspace designated as the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area Flight Restricted Zone (DC FRZ) (as defined in ?? 93.335).

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.333   Failure to comply with this subpart.

    (a) Any violation . The FAA may take civil enforcement action against a pilot for violations, whether inadvertent or intentional, including imposition of civil penalties and suspension or revocation of airmen's certificates.

    (b) Knowing or willful violations . The DC FRZ and DC SFRA were established for reasons of national security under the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 40103(b)(3). Areas established by the FAA under that authority constitute ???national defense airspace??? as that term is used in 49 U.S.C. 46307. In addition to being subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, persons who knowingly or willfully violate national defense airspace established pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 40103(b)(3) may be subject to criminal prosecution.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.335   Definitions.

    For purposes of this subpart???

    DC FRZ flight plan is a flight plan filed for the sole purpose of complying with the requirements for VFR operations into, out of, and through the DC FRZ. This flight plan is separate and distinct from a standard VFR flight plan, and does not include search and rescue services.

    DC SFRA flight plan is a flight plan filed for the sole purpose of complying with the requirements for VFR operations into, out of, and through the DC SFRA. This flight plan is separate and distinct from a standard VFR flight plan, and does not include search and rescue services.

    Fringe airports are the following airports located near the outer boundary of the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area Special Flight Rules Area: Barnes (MD47), Flying M Farms (MD77), Mountain Road (MD43), Robinson (MD14), and Skyview (51VA).

    Washington, DC Metropolitan Area Flight Restricted Zone (DC FRZ) is an area bounded by a line beginning at the Washington VOR/DME (DCA) 311?? radial at 15 nautical miles (NM) (Lat. 38??59???31??? N., Long. 077??18???30??? W.); then clockwise along the DCA 15 nautical mile arc to the DCA 002?? radial at 15 NM (Lat. 39??06???28??? N., Long 077??04???32??? W.); then southeast via a line drawn to the DCA 049?? radial at 14 NM (Lat. 39??02???18??? N., Long. 076??50???38??? W.); thence south via a line drawn to the DCA 064?? radial at 13 NM (Lat. 38??59???01??? N., Long. 076??48???32??? W.); thence clockwise along the 13 NM arc to the DCA 276?? radial at 13 NM (Lat.38??50???53??? N., Long 077??18???48??? W.); thence north to the point of beginning, excluding the airspace within a one nautical mile radius of the Freeway Airport, W00, Mitchellville, MD from the surface up to but not including flight level (FL) 180. The DC FRZ is within and part of the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area SFRA.

    Washington, DC Metropolitan Area Special Flight Rules Area (DC SFRA) is an area of airspace over the surface of the earth where the ready identification, location, and control of aircraft is required in the interests of national security. Specifically, the DC SFRA is that airspace, from the surface to, but not including, FL 180, within a 30-mile radius of Lat. 38??51???34??? N., Long. 077??02???11??? W., or the DCA VOR/DME. The DC SFRA includes the DC FRZ.

    [Doc. No. FAA-2004-17005, 73 FR 76213, Dec. 16, 2008; Amdt. 93-91, 73 FR 79314, Dec. 29, 2008]

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.337   Requirements for operating in the DC SFRA.

    A pilot conducting any type of flight operation in the DC SFRA must comply with the restrictions listed in this subpart and all special instructions issued by the FAA in the interest of national security. Those special instructions may be issued in any manner the FAA considers appropriate, including a NOTAM. Additionally, a pilot must comply with all of the applicable requirements of this chapter.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.339   Requirements for operating in the DC SFRA, including the DC FRZ.

    (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and in ?? 93.345, or unless authorized by Air Traffic Control, no pilot may operate an aircraft, including an ultralight vehicle or any civil aircraft or public aircraft, in the DC SFRA, including the DC FRZ, unless???

    (1) The aircraft is equipped with an operable two-way radio capable of communicating with Air Traffic Control on appropriate radio frequencies;

    (2) Before operating an aircraft in the DC SFRA, including the DC FRZ, the pilot establishes two-way radio communications with the appropriate Air Traffic Control facility and maintains such communications while operating the aircraft in the DC SFRA, including the DC FRZ;

    (3) The aircraft is equipped with an operating automatic altitude reporting transponder;

    (4) Before operating an aircraft in the DC SFRA, including the DC FRZ, the pilot obtains and transmits a discrete transponder code from Air Traffic Control, and the aircraft's transponder continues to transmit the assigned code while operating within the DC SFRA;

    (5) For VFR operations, the pilot must file and activate a DC FRZ or DC SFRA flight plan by obtaining a discrete transponder code. The flight plan is closed upon landing at an airport within the DC SFRA or when the aircraft exits the DC SFRA;

    (6) Before operating the aircraft into, out of, or through the Washington, DC Tri-Area Class B Airspace Area, the pilot receives a specific Air Traffic Control clearance to operate in the Class B airspace area; and

    (7) Before operating the aircraft into, out of, or through Class D airspace area that is within the DC SFRA, the pilot complies with ?? 91.129 of this chapter.

    (b) Paragraph (a)(5) of this section does not apply to operators of Department of Defense aircraft, law enforcement operations, or lifeguard or air ambulance operations under an FAA/TSA airspace authorization, if the flight crew is in contact with Air Traffic Control and is transmitting an Air Traffic Control-assigned discrete transponder code.

    (c) When operating an aircraft in the VFR traffic pattern at an airport within the DC SFRA (but not within the DC FRZ) that does not have an airport traffic control tower, a pilot must???

    (1) File a DC SFRA flight plan for traffic pattern work;

    (2) Communicate traffic pattern position via the published Common Traffic Advisory Frequency (CTAF);

    (3) Monitor VHF frequency 121.5 or UHF frequency 243.0, if the aircraft is suitably equipped;

    (4) Obtain and transmit the Air Traffic Control-assigned discrete transponder code; and

    (5) When exiting the VFR traffic pattern, comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section.

    (d) When operating an aircraft in the VFR traffic pattern at an airport within the DC SFRA (but not within the DC FRZ) that has an operating airport traffic control tower, a pilot must???

    (1) Before departure or before entering the traffic pattern, request to remain in the traffic pattern;

    (2) Remain in two-way radio communications with the tower. If the aircraft is suitably equipped, the pilot must also monitor VHF frequency 121.5 or UHF frequency 243.0;

    (3) Continuously operate the aircraft transponder on code 1234 unless Air Traffic Control assigns a different code; and

    (4) Before exiting the traffic pattern, comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section.

    (e) Pilots must transmit the assigned transponder code. No pilot may use transponder code 1200 while in the DC SFRA.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.341   Aircraft operations in the DC FRZ.

    (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no pilot may conduct any flight operation under part 91, 101, 103, 105, 125, 133, 135, or 137 of this chapter in the DC FRZ, unless the specific flight is operating under an FAA/TSA authorization.

    (b) Department of Defense (DOD) operations, law enforcement operations, and lifeguard or air ambulance operations under an FAA/TSA airspace authorization are excepted from the prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section if the pilot is in contact with Air Traffic Control and operates the aircraft transponder on an Air Traffic Control-assigned beacon code.

    (c) The following aircraft operations are permitted in the DC FRZ:

    (1) Aircraft operations under the DCA Access Standard Security Program (DASSP) (49 CFR part 1562) with a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) flight authorization.

    (2) Law enforcement and other U.S. Federal aircraft operations with prior FAA approval.

    (3) Foreign-operated military and state aircraft operations with a State Department-authorized diplomatic clearance, with State Department notification to the FAA and TSA.

    (4) Federal, State, Federal DOD contract, local government agency aircraft operations and part 121, 129 or 135 air carrier flights with TSA-approved full aircraft operator standard security programs/procedures, if operating with DOD permission and notification to the FAA and the National Capital Regional Coordination Center (NCRCC). These flights may land and depart Andrews Air Force Base, MD, with prior permission, if required.

    (5) Aircraft operations maintaining radio contact with Air Traffic Control and continuously transmitting an Air Traffic Control-assigned discrete transponder code. The pilot must monitor VHF frequency 121.5 or UHF frequency 243.0.

    (d) Before departing from an airport within the DC FRZ, or before entering the DC FRZ, all aircraft, except DOD, law enforcement, and lifeguard or air ambulance aircraft operating under an FAA/TSA airspace authorization must file and activate an IFR or a DC FRZ or a DC SFRA flight plan and transmit a discrete transponder code assigned by an Air Traffic Control facility. Aircraft must transmit the discrete transponder code at all times while in the DC FRZ or DC SFRA.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.343   Requirements for aircraft operations to or from College Park Airport, Potomac Airfield, or Washington Executive/Hyde Field Airport.

    (a) A pilot may not operate an aircraft to or from College Park Airport, MD, Potomac Airfield, MD, or Washington Executive/Hyde Field Airport, MD unless???

    (1) The aircraft and its crew and passengers comply with security rules issued by the TSA in 49 CFR part 1562, subpart A;

    (2) Before departing, the pilot files an IFR or DC FRZ or DC SFRA flight plan with the Washington Hub Flight Service Station (FSS) for each departure and arrival from/to College Park, Potomac Airfield, and Washington Executive/Hyde Field airports, whether or not the aircraft makes an intermediate stop;

    (3) When filing a flight plan with the Washington Hub FSS, the pilot identifies himself or herself by providing the assigned pilot identification code. The Washington Hub FSS will accept the flight plan only after verifying the code; and

    (4) The pilot complies with the applicable IFR or VFR egress procedures in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this section.

    (b) If using IFR procedures, a pilot must???

    (1) Obtain an Air Traffic Control clearance from the Potomac TRACON; and

    (2) Comply with Air Traffic Control departure instructions from Washington Executive/Hyde Field, Potomac Airport, or College Park Airport. The pilot must then proceed on the Air Traffic Control-assigned course and remain clear of the DC FRZ.

    (c) If using VFR egress procedures, a pilot must???

    (1) Depart as instructed by Air Traffic Control and expect a heading directly out of the DC FRZ until the pilot establishes two-way radio communication with Potomac Approach; and

    (2) Operate as assigned by Air Traffic Control until clear of the DC FRZ, the DC SFRA, and the Class B or Class D airspace area.

    (d) If using VFR ingress procedures, the aircraft must remain outside the DC SFRA until the pilot establishes communications with Air Traffic Control and receives authorization for the aircraft to enter the DC SFRA.

    (e) VFR arrivals:

    (1) If landing at College Park Airport a pilot may receive routing via the vicinity of Freeway Airport; or

    (2) If landing at Washington Executive/Hyde Field or Potomac Airport, the pilot may receive routing via the vicinity of Maryland Airport or the Nottingham VORTAC.

    return arrow Back to Top
    ?? 93.345   VFR outbound procedures for fringe airports.

    (a) A pilot may depart from a fringe airport as defined in ?? 93.335 without filing a flight plan or communicating with Air Traffic Control, unless requested, provided:

    (1) The aircraft's transponder transmits code 1205;

    (2) The pilot exits the DC SFRA by the most direct route before proceeding on course; and

    (3) The pilot monitors VHF frequency 121.5 or UHF frequency 243.0.

    (b) No pilot may operate an aircraft arriving at a fringe airport or transit the DC SFRA unless that pilot complies with the DC SFRA operating procedures in this subpart.