**Visuals for Programmers in Two Parts**

**SUGGESTED NON-MEMBER DONATION \$5 - \$25 per class, Bring Paypal
Receipt**

**START DATE SUNDAY NOV 6th (2011) 4:00pm ??? 8:00pm**

**I Manual Intro to Fine Art and Design** **II Intro to Digital Design
and Production**

**About the course**

An Introduction to Visuals For Programmers in Two Parts seeks to provide
a comprehensive understanding of theory, practice, skills and fluency in
the visual communications realm for the purpose of connecting
visionaries across disciplines so that new methods of problem types and
approaches may inform scientific discovery and innovation in the arts.

Each Part consists of six lessons Each lesson is four hours in duration.
There are weekly assignments, leading to a final gallery exhibit.

**Why you should participate:** If you come to every class and complete
every assignment you will have a portfolio worthy of undergraduate or
graduate fine art or design school admissions and an intimidating
foundation in visual communication.

You are receiving 450K worth of fine art and design education investment
distilled into a comprehensive 12 week course.

You will become fluent in the language used by artists and designers in
every day communications and you will understand project approaches from
their perspective ??? you will be able to interface and lead a group
project that integrates both the fine arts and the hard sciences.

**Why I want to teach:** I look forward to seeing your response to the
concepts and projects presented. I would like to learn from all of you
through studying your individual processes. I am always looking to
network and anticipate some really cool ideas and collaborations
stemming from this course.

About the Instructor [Emily Dunne Architecture and Design
Portfolio](http://www.emilydunne.com)

Administrative Intro to Fine Art and Design Introduction, Backgrounds,
Experiences Syllabus, Information Sharing Start Manual Foundation

**SUNDAY NOV 6st 4:00pm ??? 8:00pm** Class 1: Sketching and the Still
Life PPT 1 Myth Semester Assignment Sketching Warm???up Still Life
Sketching Still Life Pin???Up Review Assignment 1: Object Sketches, 20
On 8.5 X 11 paper, pen, pencil

**SUNDAY NOV 13th 2:00pm ??? 6:00pm** Class 2: Museum Trip and Research
Meet at National Gallery of Art Hand in Assignment 1 for Internal Review
Sketch 20 paintings/sculptures in NGA Assignment 2: Artist Research
(Prepare 3 paragraphs on artist, type of work and contribution to
society Answer the so what question, fill in info for 1 Slide from
template and email to Emily) Receive written feedback for Assignment 1

**SUNDAY NOV 20th 4:00pm ???8:00pm** Class 3: Figure Drawing and Self
Expression Present Assignment 2 Artist Research PPT Anatomy Study PPT
Sketching Warm???Up Figure Drawing Figure Drawing Pin???up Review
Assignment 3 : Self Portrait On 8.5 X 11 paper, pen, pencil

**SUNDAY DEC 4th 4:00pm ??? 8:00 pm** Class 4: Sketch Model, Material
Manipulation Hand in Assignment 3 for Internal Review Modeling PPT In
class clay???knife, paper???glue modeling Assignment 4: Model a Musical
Instrument First clay then paper, smaller than 8.5 X 11 Receive written
feedback for Assignment 3

**SATURDAY DEC 10th 4:00pm ??? 8:00pm** Class 5: Fundamentals of 2D
Musical Instrument Podium Review Aspects of 2D PPT Outlines Gray Scales
2??? X 2??? Square Folding In???Class Assignment Assignment 5: Positive
Negative Study Create 6 studies from instrument model On 8.5 X 11 paper,
black and white, outlines

**SUNDAY DEC 11th 4:00pm ??? 8:00pm** Class 6: Color, Space and Style
Hand in Assignment 5 for Internal Review Color Fundamentals PPT
In???class color studies: Hue: Intensity, Value, Saturation
Transparency, Vibrations Homework: Tessellation with Two Hues Based on
Instrument Figure Ground And Description of Color Relationships Receive
Written Instructor Review Sheet Use two weeks to redo, enhance or make
up any work for final exhibit and scan and photograph all work for
instructor.

**FRIDAY DEC 30th** Gallery Exhibit and Reception Displaying: Still Life
Figure Sketch Self Portrait Instrument Model Instrument BW Study
Instrument Tessellation Class Dinner and Manual Foundation Discussion
Hand in Written Instructor Review Sheet Receive Final Instructor
Evaluation Myth Assignment Explanation End Manual Foundation

**Hard Dates TBD in January**

Administrative Intro to Digital Design and Production Introduction,
Backgrounds, Experiences Syllabus, Information Sharing Start Digital
Foundation

Class 1: Intro to Interior Architecture PPT 1 ??? Understanding
Intervention & Parti Team Project Semester Assignment Intro Intro to
Autodesk Revit Architecture Intro to Drawing for Design/Arch Team Space
Measurement Team Revit Model Revit Model Review Assignment 1: Complete
Group Model In Revit Architecture

Class 2: Project Research and Context Review Assignment 1 Group Model
Intro to Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign Ideating Important Adjacencies
Walking Tour of Site Neighborhood Sketching and Marking Features
Diagramming: Mapping of Urban Context Assignment 2: Urban Mapping
(Prepare 6 maps with diagrams for analysis) Receive written feedback for
Assignment 1

Class 3: Project Concept Present Assignment 2 Urban Mapping Building
Parti Concepts PPT and Discussion Using Information Layers to Inform
Design Visual Analysis and Concept Sketches Concept Sketch Pin???up
Review Assignment 3 : Draw your Parti On 8.5 X 11 paper, pen, pencil

Class 4: Project Intervention Hand in Assignment 3 for Internal Review
Translating Parti to Forms in Space PPT In class spatial intervention
Revit modeling Assignment 4: Complete Space Intervention Finish model In
Revit Architecture Receive written feedback for Assignment 3

Class 5: Post???Production Final Model Review Intro to Autodesk
Impression Cutting plans, sections, elevations, perspectives Exporting
to impression, Photoshop, etc. Graphic Standards Assignment 5: Complete
graphics for plan, 2 sections, 4 interior elevations, 1 perspective 8.5
X 11 image size for 24??? X 36??? Board

Class 6: Physical and Digital Presentation Hand in Assignment 5 for
Internal Review Presentation Fundamentals PPT Board and Website Concepts
in Photoshop Final Physical Boards in Indesign Group Website Index
Design Completion Individual Page Design Template Completion Homework:
Complete One 24??? X 36??? Board for Print and Individual Site Page for
Group Site Compile Group Website as Team Instructor Will Print Boards
Receive Written Instructor Review Sheet

Use two weeks to redo, enhance or make up any work for final exhibit and
scan and photograph all work for instructor.

Gallery Exhibit and Reception Displaying: Individual Boards Group
Website Class Dinner and Digital Foundation Discussion Hand in Written
Instructor Review Sheet Receive Final Instructor Evaluation End Digital
Foundation

**My thoughts on materials and supplies:**

Teachers have a way of making you buy a ton of supplies that you never
use or need. Art supplies are so expensive. My intent is to provide you
with a minimal supply list so that we aren???t breaking the bank. I
would advise you to look around for these items and be creative before
you go purchasing them.

I don???t care what type of paper, pens, pencils or markers you bring to
the table. If you would like advice based on what I personally use then
I will be happy to point you in a specific supply direction. Shoot me an
email.

I am recommending 8.5 X 11 because it is a decent size sheet of paper
for lugging around and very easy to scan ??? and you will be scanning
everything. I personally never carry a sketchbook ??? I find them
constraining and annoying, and the perforations on the edge of the paper
defy conceptual layout.

I advise you always work from one rectilinear sheet of paper. I keep all
of my work on loose sheets of paper in the folder portion of a 3 ring
binder. I keep instructor handouts in the binder portion. I draw on the
paper with the support of the binder and organize my drawings in a
portfolio (a manila folder) later.

**The most important supplies you bring with you to this course are an
open mind and patience.**

**Materials you supply:** Sharpies (thin, medium, thick) Pens (3 varying
line weights) Pencils (4 h 4 b, I hb) Markers (bic mark???it 36, AWESOME
performance for value) Charcoal (4 sticks) White pastels (2 sticks)
Kneaded Eraser (1) White pen eraser (1) 8.5 X 11 paper any kind, lots of
it, computer paper works. 12??? Trace roll or 8.5 X 11 sheets Ruler
12??? Pen knife Extra Blades Elmer???s glue 1 block of clay

**Materials I will supply:** Acrylic paint and canvas Colorform paper
Relevant software access Large scale 24??? X 36??? printing Tape measure

[Category:Classes](Category:Classes "wikilink")