![Before and after, same
exposure](Shelf_lights_v0.9.gif "Before and after, same exposure")

## LED Lighting

Feb 2014: LED strips have been added to the underside of each shelf by
[Gatohaus](User:Gatohaus "wikilink")
([talk](User_talk:Gatohaus "wikilink")). These are SMD 5050 strips, 5m
long, 300 LEDs each that draw 1.2A per meter at 12v. Note they have been
trimmed nearly a foot each to fit. Total maximum wattage for the 10
strips currently in place is 10 x 72w = 720w. Output is around 800-900
lumens per meter. (~40k lumens) A good balance between light and heat
(longevity) seems to be in the 3 to 4A per strip range.

The location of the strips was chosen: to be somewhat protected, to
light the shelf adequately, to avoid as much glare as possible, and to
provide significant spillage into the surrounding area.

Feb 2014: **Expect a few of the strips to fall down.** Some are still
partially attached by their adhesive tape which won't really fail until
they're warm for a while. When they do fail, reattach them with a hot
glue gun. That seems (fingers crossed) to be permanent.

### <u>Lessons Learned</u>

#### Strip Choice

SMD 3528's were also tested (the strip remains in use on the shelves).
The 5050's were the same price (~\$12) at about the same efficiency but
allow for a higher maximum brightness (and greater power draw of
course).

#### Adhering the strips

The tape adhesive that comes on the strips works very poorly on OSB
(shelving material used). They'll hold while the lights are off, but
once they warm up the adhesive begins to fail. I tried 3M's "77" spray..
an embarrassing failure. It too loses adhesion when warmed.

Trying mechanical attachments, typically a nail or staple with a plastic
brace, the type used to hold cables in place, proved troublesome. The
OSB is hard enough that significant force is required with a hammer to
drive the nails in. Over a span of 50m of LEDs it seems likely that
misses would occur probably smashing some of the LED components.

In the end a simple hot glue gun seems to have worked.

#### Wiring & Power

In hindsight it would have been better to mount the strips with more of
the connecting leads sticking out at the end. The leads can easily be
replaced if needed, they're just surface mounted.

<s>I used a PC's ATX power supply which has 2 x 12v at 15A.</s> (I
managed to damage this ps somehow.) I don't know how efficient it is but
after spending several hours hunting for options in our collection of
stuff, this seemed the best choice. Perhaps it can be replaced at some
point. I'm giving one of the 15A sources to the lower 3 shelves, and the
other to the top two shelves. This means the upper ones will be
brighter, but the spill over will help illuminate the surrounding area.

Temporarily (which tends to become permanent) there is another ATX ps
plus a couple of in-line wall warts in place of the ATX mentioned above.
This ATX has 12v at 21A and the two wall warts have 5A and 2.5A at 12v.
Not quite the distribution I'd like, but it works.

**Well... almost works...** After being on for half an hour or so the
21A ATX takes a nap. Exhaust air feels cool, but it's probably too much
of a load. So I added *another* computer power supply (~5A) to help out.
Seems to be stable. Need help either repairing the original ATX supply
or finding something else.

### <u>Things to Improve</u>

In general I'm not exactly proud of the wiring. It's solid and safe, but
not quite pretty. If someone wishes to redo this work, please do!

[Category:BasementShelves](Category:BasementShelves "wikilink")